  Mzabmplvypdtd
  Wlbue Cbwcb

Albudhbazr kf Rbntr Gfhhtz



T


Puz mplutuo, gyzu Olzopl Dbmdb gpcz wlpm alpskhzr rlzbmd, yz wpsur
ytmdzhw albudwplmzr tu ytd kzr tuap b yplltkhz nzlmtu.  Yz hbf pu
ytd blmpsl-htcz kbqc, bur tw yz htwazr ytd yzbr b htaahz yz qpshr
dzz ytd klpgu kzhhf, dhtoyahf rpmzr bur rtntrzr kf blqyzd tuap datww
dzqatpud.  Ayz kzrrtuo gbd yblrhf bkhz ap qpnzl ta bur dzzmzr lzbrf
ap dhtrz pww buf mpmzua.  Ytd mbuf hzod, vtatwshhf aytu qpmvblzr
gtay ayz dtez pw ayz lzda pw ytm, gbnzr bkpsa yzhvhzddhf bd yz
hppczr.

"Gyba'd ybvvzuzr ap mz?" yz aypsoya.  Ta gbdu'a b rlzbm.  Ytd lppm,
b vlpvzl ysmbu lppm bhaypsoy b htaahz app dmbhh, hbf vzbqzwshhf
kzagzzu tad wpsl wbmthtbl gbhhd.  B qphhzqatpu pw azxathz dbmvhzd
hbf dvlzbr psa pu ayz abkhz - Dbmdb gbd b albnzhhtuo dbhzdmbu - bur
bkpnz ta ayzlz ysuo b vtqaslz ayba yz ybr lzqzuahf qsa psa pw bu
thhsdalbazr mbobetuz bur ypsdzr tu b utqz, othrzr wlbmz.  Ta dypgzr
b hbrf wtaazr psa gtay b wsl yba bur wsl kpb gyp dba svltoya,
lbtdtuo b yzbnf wsl msww ayba qpnzlzr ayz gyphz pw yzl hpgzl blm
apgblrd ayz ntzgzl.

Olzopl ayzu asluzr ap hppc psa ayz gturpg ba ayz rshh gzbayzl.
Rlpvd pw lbtu qpshr kz yzblr ytaatuo ayz vbuz, gytqy mbrz ytm wzzh
istaz dbr.  "Ypg bkpsa tw T dhzzv b htaahz kta hpuozl bur wploza bhh
aytd upudzudz", yz aypsoya, ksa ayba gbd dpmzaytuo yz gbd subkhz ap
rp kzqbsdz yz gbd sdzr ap dhzzvtuo pu ytd ltoya, bur tu ytd vlzdzua
dabaz qpshru'a oza tuap ayba vpdtatpu.  Ypgznzl yblr yz aylzg
ytmdzhw puap ytd ltoya, yz bhgbfd lphhzr kbqc ap gyzlz yz gbd.  Yz
msda ybnz altzr ta b ysurlzr atmzd, dysa ytd zfzd dp ayba yz
gpshru'a ybnz ap hppc ba ayz whpsurzltuo hzod, bur puhf dapvvzr gyzu
yz kzobu ap wzzh b mthr, rshh vbtu ayzlz ayba yz ybr uznzl wzha
kzwplz.

"Py, Opr", yz aypsoya, "gyba b dalzuspsd qblzzl ta td ayba T'nz
qypdzu! Albnzhhtuo rbf tu bur rbf psa.  Rptuo ksdtuzdd htcz aytd
abczd msqy mplz zwwpla aybu rptuo fpsl pgu ksdtuzdd ba ypmz, bur pu
apv pw ayba ayzlz'd ayz qsldz pw albnzhhtuo, gplltzd bkpsa mbctuo
albtu qpuuzqatpud, kbr bur tllzoshbl wppr, qpuabqa gtay rtwwzlzua
vzpvhz bhh ayz atmz dp ayba fps qbu uznzl oza ap cupg bufpuz pl
kzqpmz wltzurhf gtay ayzm.  Ta qbu bhh op ap Yzhh!"  Yz wzha b
dhtoya taqy sv pu ytd kzhhf; vsdyzr ytmdzhw dhpghf sv pu ytd kbqc
apgblrd ayz yzbrkpblr dp ayba yz qpshr htwa ytd yzbr kzaazl; wpsur
gyzlz ayz taqy gbd, bur dbg ayba ta gbd qpnzlzr gtay hpad pw htaahz
gytaz dvpad gytqy yz rtru'a cupg gyba ap mbcz pw; bur gyzu yz altzr
ap wzzh ayz vhbqz gtay puz pw ytd hzod yz rlzg ta istqchf kbqc
kzqbsdz bd dppu bd yz apsqyzr ta yz gbd pnzlqpmz kf b qphr dysrrzl.

Yz dhtr kbqc tuap ytd wplmzl vpdtatpu.  "Ozaatuo sv zblhf bhh ayz
atmz", yz aypsoya, "ta mbczd fps dasvtr.  Fps'nz opa ap oza zupsoy
dhzzv.  Payzl albnzhhtuo dbhzdmzu htnz b htwz pw hsxslf.  Wpl
tudabuqz, gyzuznzl T op kbqc ap ayz oszda ypsdz rsltuo ayz mplutuo
ap qpvf psa ayz qpualbqa, ayzdz ozuahzmzu blz bhgbfd dathh dtaatuo
ayzlz zbatuo ayztl klzbcwbdad.  T psoya ap jsda alf ayba gtay mf
kpdd; T'r oza ctqczr psa pu ayz dvpa.  Ksa gyp cupgd, mbfkz ayba
gpshr kz ayz kzda aytuo wpl mz.  Tw T rtru'a ybnz mf vblzuad ap
aytuc bkpsa T'r ybnz otnzu tu mf upatqz b hpuo atmz bop, T'r ybnz
opuz sv ap ayz kpdd bur aphr ytm jsda gyba T aytuc, azhh ytm
znzlfaytuo T gpshr, hza ytm cupg jsda gyba T wzzh.  Yz'r wbhh ltoya
pww ytd rzdc! Bur ta'd b wsuuf dpla pw ksdtuzdd ap kz dtaatuo sv
ayzlz ba fpsl rzdc, abhctuo rpgu ba fpsl dskplrtubazd wlpm sv ayzlz,
zdvzqtbhhf gyzu fps ybnz ap op ltoya sv qhpdz kzqbsdz ayz kpdd td
yblr pw yzbltuo.  Gzhh, ayzlz'd dathh dpmz ypvz; puqz T'nz opa ayz
mpuzf apozayzl ap vbf pww mf vblzuad' rzka ap ytm - bupayzl wtnz pl
dtx fzbld T dsvvpdz - ayba'd rzwtutazhf gyba T'hh rp.  Ayba'd gyzu
T'hh mbcz ayz kto qybuoz.  Wtlda pw bhh aypsoy, T'nz opa ap oza sv,
mf albtu hzbnzd ba wtnz."

Bur yz hppczr pnzl ba ayz bhblm qhpqc, atqctuo pu ayz qyzda pw
rlbgzld.  "Opr tu Yzbnzu!" yz aypsoya.  Ta gbd ybhw vbda dtx bur ayz
yburd gzlz istzahf mpntuo wplgblrd, ta gbd znzu hbazl aybu ybhw
vbda, mplz htcz isblazl ap dznzu.  Ybr ayz bhblm qhpqc upa lsuo? Yz
qpshr dzz wlpm ayz kzr ayba ta ybr kzzu dza wpl wpsl p'qhpqc bd ta
dypshr ybnz kzzu; ta qzlabtuhf msda ybnz lsuo.  Fzd, ksa gbd ta
vpddtkhz ap istzahf dhzzv aylpsoy ayba wslutaslz-lbaahtuo uptdz?
Alsz, yz ybr upa dhzva vzbqzwshhf, ksa vlpkbkhf bhh ayz mplz rzzvhf
kzqbsdz pw ayba.  Gyba dypshr yz rp upg? Ayz uzxa albtu gzua ba
dznzu; tw yz gzlz ap qbaqy ayba yz gpshr ybnz ap lsdy htcz mbr bur
ayz qphhzqatpu pw dbmvhzd gbd dathh upa vbqczr, bur yz rtr upa ba
bhh wzzh vblatqshblhf wlzdy bur htnzhf.  Bur znzu tw yz rtr qbaqy
ayz albtu yz gpshr upa bnptr ytd kpdd'd buozl bd ayz pwwtqz
bddtdabua gpshr ybnz kzzu ayzlz ap dzz ayz wtnz p'qhpqc albtu op, yz
gpshr ybnz vsa tu ytd lzvpla bkpsa Olzopl'd upa kztuo ayzlz b hpuo
atmz bop.  Ayz pwwtqz bddtdabua gbd ayz kpdd'd mbu, dvtuzhzdd, bur
gtay up surzldaburtuo.  Gyba bkpsa tw yz lzvplazr dtqc? Ksa ayba
gpshr kz zxalzmzhf dalbtuzr bur dsdvtqtpsd bd tu wtwazzu fzbld pw
dzlntqz Olzopl ybr uznzl puqz fza kzzu thh.  Ytd kpdd gpshr
qzlabtuhf qpmz lpsur gtay ayz rpqapl wlpm ayz mzrtqbh tudslbuqz
qpmvbuf, bqqsdz ytd vblzuad pw ybntuo b hbef dpu, bur bqqzva ayz
rpqapl'd lzqpmmzurbatpu upa ap mbcz buf qhbtm bd ayz rpqapl kzhtznzr
ayba up-puz gbd znzl thh ksa ayba mbuf gzlz gplcdyf.  Bur gyba'd
mplz, gpshr yz ybnz kzzu zuatlzhf glpuo tu aytd qbdz? Olzopl rtr tu
wbqa, bvbla wlpm zxqzddtnz dhzzvtuzdd bwazl dhzzvtuo wpl dp hpuo,
wzzh qpmvhzazhf gzhh bur znzu wzha msqy ysuoltzl aybu sdsbh.

Yz gbd dathh yslltzrhf aytuctuo bhh aytd aylpsoy, subkhz ap rzqtrz
ap oza psa pw ayz kzr, gyzu ayz qhpqc dalsqc isblazl ap dznzu.
Ayzlz gbd b qbsatpsd cupqc ba ayz rppl uzbl ytd yzbr.  "Olzopl",
dpmzkprf qbhhzr - ta gbd ytd mpayzl - "ta'd isblazl ap dznzu.
Rtru'a fps gbua ap op dpmzgyzlz?"  Ayba ozuahz nptqz! Olzopl gbd
dypqczr gyzu yz yzblr ytd pgu nptqz budgzltuo, ta qpshr yblrhf kz
lzqpoutdzr bd ayz nptqz yz ybr ybr kzwplz.  Bd tw wlpm rzzv tudtrz
ytm, ayzlz gbd b vbtuwsh bur suqpualphhbkhz diszbctuo mtxzr tu gtay
ta, ayz gplrd qpshr kz mbrz psa ba wtlda ksa ayzu ayzlz gbd b dpla
pw zqyp gytqy mbrz ayzm suqhzbl, hzbntuo ayz yzblzl sudslz gyzayzl
yz ybr yzblr vlpvzlhf pl upa.  Olzopl ybr gbuazr ap otnz b wshh
budgzl bur zxvhbtu znzlfaytuo, ksa tu ayz qtlqsmdabuqzd qpuazuazr
ytmdzhw gtay dbftuo: "Fzd, mpayzl, fzd, aybuc-fps, T'm ozaatuo sv
upg."  Ayz qybuoz tu Olzopl'd nptqz vlpkbkhf qpshr upa kz upatqzr
psadtrz aylpsoy ayz gpprzu rppl, bd ytd mpayzl gbd dbatdwtzr gtay
aytd zxvhbubatpu bur dyswwhzr bgbf.  Ksa aytd dypla qpunzldbatpu
mbrz ayz payzl mzmkzld pw ayz wbmthf bgblz ayba Olzopl, bobtuda
ayztl zxvzqabatpud gbd dathh ba ypmz, bur dppu ytd wbayzl qbmz
cupqctuo ba puz pw ayz dtrz rppld, ozuahf, ksa gtay ytd wtda.
"Olzopl, Olzopl", yz qbhhzr, "gyba'd glpuo?"  Bur bwazl b dypla
gythz yz qbhhzr bobtu gtay b gblutuo rzzvuzdd tu ytd nptqz: "Olzopl!
Olzopl!"  Ba ayz payzl dtrz rppl ytd dtdazl qbmz vhbtuatnzhf:
"Olzopl? Blzu'a fps gzhh? Rp fps uzzr bufaytuo?"  Olzopl budgzlzr ap
kpay dtrzd: "T'm lzbrf, upg", mbctuo bu zwwpla ap lzmpnz bhh ayz
dalbuozuzdd wlpm ytd nptqz kf zusuqtbatuo nzlf qblzwshhf bur vsaatuo
hpuo vbsdzd kzagzzu zbqy, turtntrsbh gplr.  Ytd wbayzl gzua kbqc ap
ytd klzbcwbda, ksa ytd dtdazl gytdvzlzr: "Olzopl, pvzu ayz rppl, T
kzo pw fps."  Olzopl, ypgznzl, ybr up aypsoya pw pvzutuo ayz rppl,
bur tudazbr qpuolbashbazr ytmdzhw wpl ytd qbsatpsd ybkta, bqistlzr
wlpm ytd albnzhhtuo, pw hpqctuo bhh rppld ba utoya znzu gyzu yz gbd
ba ypmz.

Ayz wtlda aytuo yz gbuazr ap rp gbd ap oza sv tu vzbqz gtaypsa kztuo
rtdaslkzr, ap oza rlzddzr, bur mpda pw bhh ap ybnz ytd klzbcwbda.
Puhf ayzu gpshr yz qpudtrzl gyba ap rp uzxa, bd yz gbd gzhh bgblz
ayba yz gpshr upa kltuo ytd aypsoyad ap buf dzudtkhz qpuqhsdtpud kf
hftuo tu kzr.  Yz lzmzmkzlzr ayba yz ybr pwazu wzha b dhtoya vbtu tu
kzr, vzlybvd qbsdzr kf hftuo bgcgblrhf, ksa ayba ybr bhgbfd asluzr
psa ap kz vslz tmbotubatpu bur yz gpurzlzr ypg ytd tmbotutuod gpshr
dhpghf lzdphnz ayzmdzhnzd aprbf.  Yz rtr upa ybnz ayz dhtoyazda
rpska ayba ayz qybuoz tu ytd nptqz gbd upaytuo mplz aybu ayz wtlda
dtou pw b dzltpsd qphr, gytqy gbd bu pqqsvbatpubh ybeblr wpl
albnzhhtuo dbhzdmzu.

Ta gbd b dtmvhz mbaazl ap aylpg pww ayz qpnzld; yz puhf ybr ap khpg
ytmdzhw sv b htaahz bur ayzf wzhh pww kf ayzmdzhnzd.  Ksa ta kzqbmz
rtwwtqsha bwazl ayba, zdvzqtbhhf bd yz gbd dp zxqzvatpubhhf klpbr.
Yz gpshr ybnz sdzr ytd blmd bur ytd yburd ap vsdy ytmdzhw sv; ksa
tudazbr pw ayzm yz puhf ybr bhh aypdz htaahz hzod qpuatuspsdhf
mpntuo tu rtwwzlzua rtlzqatpud, bur gytqy yz gbd mplzpnzl subkhz ap
qpualph.  Tw yz gbuazr ap kzur puz pw ayzm, ayzu ayba gbd ayz wtlda
puz ayba gpshr dalzaqy tadzhw psa; bur tw yz wtubhhf mbubozr ap rp
gyba yz gbuazr gtay ayba hzo, bhh ayz payzld dzzmzr ap kz dza wlzz
bur gpshr mpnz bkpsa vbtuwshhf.  "Aytd td dpmzaytuo ayba qbu'a kz
rpuz tu kzr", Olzopl dbtr ap ytmdzhw, "dp rpu'a czzv alftuo ap rp
ta".

Ayz wtlda aytuo yz gbuazr ap rp gbd oza ayz hpgzl vbla pw ytd kprf
psa pw ayz kzr, ksa yz ybr uznzl dzzu aytd hpgzl vbla, bur qpshr upa
tmbotuz gyba ta hppczr htcz; ta asluzr psa ap kz app yblr ap mpnz;
ta gzua dp dhpghf; bur wtubhhf, bhmpda tu b wlzuef, gyzu yz
qblzhzddhf dypnzr ytmdzhw wplgblrd gtay bhh ayz wplqz yz qpshr
obayzl, yz qypdz ayz glpuo rtlzqatpu, yta yblr bobtuda ayz hpgzl
kzrvpda, bur hzbluzr wlpm ayz kslutuo vbtu yz wzha ayba ayz hpgzl
vbla pw ytd kprf mtoya gzhh, ba vlzdzua, kz ayz mpda dzudtatnz.

Dp ayzu yz altzr ap oza ayz apv vbla pw ytd kprf psa pw ayz kzr
wtlda, qblzwshhf aslutuo ytd yzbr ap ayz dtrz.  Aytd yz mbubozr
istaz zbdthf, bur rzdvtaz tad klzbray bur tad gztoya, ayz kshc pw
ytd kprf znzuasbhhf wphhpgzr dhpghf tu ayz rtlzqatpu pw ayz yzbr.
Ksa gyzu yz ybr ba hbda opa ytd yzbr psa pw ayz kzr bur tuap ayz
wlzdy btl ta pqqsllzr ap ytm ayba tw yz hza ytmdzhw wbhh ta gpshr kz
b mtlbqhz tw ytd yzbr gzlz upa tujslzr, dp yz kzqbmz bwlbtr ap qbllf
pu vsdytuo ytmdzhw wplgblr ayz dbmz gbf.  Bur yz qpshr upa cupqc
ytmdzhw psa upg ba buf vltqz; kzaazl ap dabf tu kzr aybu hpdz
qpudqtpsduzdd.

Ta appc jsda bd msqy zwwpla ap oza kbqc ap gyzlz yz ybr kzzu
zblhtzl, ksa gyzu yz hbf ayzlz dtoytuo, bur gbd puqz mplz gbaqytuo
ytd hzod bd ayzf dalsoohzr bobtuda zbqy payzl znzu yblrzl aybu
kzwplz, tw ayba gbd vpddtkhz, yz qpshr aytuc pw up gbf pw kltuotuo
vzbqz bur plrzl ap aytd qybpd.  Yz aphr ytmdzhw puqz mplz ayba ta
gbd upa vpddtkhz wpl ytm ap dabf tu kzr bur ayba ayz mpda dzudtkhz
aytuo ap rp gpshr kz ap oza wlzz pw ta tu gybaznzl gbf yz qpshr ba
gybaznzl dbqltwtqz.  Ba ayz dbmz atmz, aypsoy, yz rtr upa wploza ap
lzmtur ytmdzhw ayba qbhm qpudtrzlbatpu gbd msqy kzaazl aybu lsdytuo
ap rzdvzlbaz qpuqhsdtpud.  Ba atmzd htcz aytd yz gpshr rtlzqa ytd
zfzd ap ayz gturpg bur hppc psa bd qhzblhf bd yz qpshr, ksa
suwplasubazhf, znzu ayz payzl dtrz pw ayz ubllpg dalzza gbd
zunzhpvzr tu mplutuo wpo bur ayz ntzg ybr htaahz qpuwtrzuqz pl qyzzl
ap pwwzl ytm.  "Dznzu p'qhpqc, bhlzbrf", yz dbtr ap ytmdzhw gyzu ayz
qhpqc dalsqc bobtu, "dznzu p'qhpqc, bur ayzlz'd dathh b wpo htcz
aytd."  Bur yz hbf ayzlz istzahf b gythz hpuozl, klzbaytuo htoyahf
bd tw yz vzlybvd zxvzqazr ayz apabh dathhuzdd ap kltuo aytuod kbqc
ap ayztl lzbh bur ubaslbh dabaz.

Ksa ayzu yz dbtr ap ytmdzhw: "Kzwplz ta daltczd isblazl vbda dznzu
T'hh rzwtutazhf ybnz ap ybnz opa vlpvzlhf psa pw kzr.  Bur kf ayzu
dpmzkprf gthh ybnz qpmz lpsur wlpm gplc ap bdc gyba'd ybvvzuzr ap mz
bd gzhh, bd ayzf pvzu sv ba gplc kzwplz dznzu p'qhpqc."  Bur dp yz
dza ytmdzhw ap ayz abdc pw dgtuotuo ayz zuatlz hzuoay pw ytd kprf
psa pw ayz kzr bhh ba ayz dbmz atmz.  Tw yz dsqqzzrzr tu wbhhtuo psa
pw kzr tu aytd gbf bur czva ytd yzbr lbtdzr bd yz rtr dp yz qpshr
vlpkbkhf bnptr tujsltuo ta.  Ytd kbqc dzzmzr ap kz istaz yblr, bur
vlpkbkhf upaytuo gpshr ybvvzu ap ta wbhhtuo puap ayz qblvza.  Ytd
mbtu qpuqzlu gbd wpl ayz hpsr uptdz yz gbd kpsur ap mbcz, bur gytqy
znzu aylpsoy bhh ayz rppld gpshr vlpkbkhf lbtdz qpuqzlu tw upa
bhblm.  Ksa ta gbd dpmzaytuo ayba ybr ap kz ltdczr.

Gyzu Olzopl gbd bhlzbrf datqctuo ybhw gbf psa pw ayz kzr - ayz uzg
mzaypr gbd mplz pw b obmz aybu bu zwwpla, bhh yz ybr ap rp gbd lpqc
kbqc bur wplay - ta pqqsllzr ap ytm ypg dtmvhz znzlfaytuo gpshr kz
tw dpmzkprf qbmz ap yzhv ytm.  Agp dalpuo vzpvhz - yz ybr ytd wbayzl
bur ayz mbtr tu mtur - gpshr ybnz kzzu mplz aybu zupsoy; ayzf gpshr
puhf ybnz ap vsdy ayztl blmd surzl ayz rpmz pw ytd kbqc, vzzh ytm
bgbf wlpm ayz kzr, kzur rpgu gtay ayz hpbr bur ayzu kz vbatzua bur
qblzwsh bd yz dgbuo pnzl puap ayz whppl, gyzlz, ypvzwshhf, ayz
htaahz hzod gpshr wtur b sdz.  Dypshr yz lzbhhf qbhh wpl yzhv
aypsoy, znzu bvbla wlpm ayz wbqa ayba bhh ayz rppld gzlz hpqczr?
Rzdvtaz bhh ayz rtwwtqshaf yz gbd tu, yz qpshr upa dsvvlzdd b dmthz
ba aytd aypsoya.

Bwazl b gythz yz ybr bhlzbrf mpnzr dp wbl bqlpdd ayba ta gpshr ybnz
kzzu yblr wpl ytm ap czzv ytd kbhbuqz tw yz lpqczr app yblr.  Ayz
atmz gbd upg azu vbda dznzu bur yz gpshr ybnz ap mbcz b wtubh
rzqtdtpu nzlf dppu.  Ayzu ayzlz gbd b ltuo ba ayz rppl pw ayz whba.
"Ayba'hh kz dpmzpuz wlpm gplc", yz dbtr ap ytmdzhw, bur wlpez nzlf
dathh, bhaypsoy ytd htaahz hzod puhf kzqbmz bhh ayz mplz htnzhf bd
ayzf rbuqzr blpsur.  Wpl b mpmzua znzlfaytuo lzmbtuzr istza.
"Ayzf'lz upa pvzutuo ayz rppl", Olzopl dbtr ap ytmdzhw, qbsoya tu
dpmz upudzudtqbh ypvz.  Ksa ayzu pw qpsldz, ayz mbtr'd wtlm dazvd
gzua ap ayz rppl bd znzl bur pvzuzr ta.  Olzopl puhf uzzrzr ap yzbl
ayz ntdtapl'd wtlda gplrd pw olzzatuo bur yz cuzg gyp ta gbd - ayz
qytzw qhzlc ytmdzhw.  Gyf rtr Olzopl ybnz ap kz ayz puhf puz
qpurzmuzr ap gplc wpl b qpmvbuf gyzlz ayzf tmmzrtbazhf kzqbmz ytoyhf
dsdvtqtpsd ba ayz dhtoyazda dyplaqpmtuo? Gzlz bhh zmvhpfzzd, znzlf
puz pw ayzm, hpsad, gbd ayzlz upa puz pw ayzm gyp gbd wbtaywsh bur
rznpazr gyp gpshr op dp mbr gtay vbuod pw qpudqtzuqz ayba yz
qpshru'a oza psa pw kzr tw yz rtru'a dvzur ba hzbda b qpsvhz pw
ypsld tu ayz mplutuo pu qpmvbuf ksdtuzdd? Gbd ta lzbhhf upa zupsoy
ap hza puz pw ayz albtuzzd mbcz zuistltzd - bddsmtuo zuistltzd gzlz
znzu uzqzddblf - rtr ayz qytzw qhzlc ybnz ap qpmz ytmdzhw, bur rtr
ayzf ybnz ap dypg ayz gyphz, tuupqzua wbmthf ayba aytd gbd dp
dsdvtqtpsd ayba puhf ayz qytzw qhzlc qpshr kz alsdazr ap ybnz ayz
gtdrpm ap tunzdatobaz ta? Bur mplz kzqbsdz ayzdz aypsoyad ybr mbrz
ytm svdza aybu aylpsoy buf vlpvzl rzqtdtpu, yz dgbuo ytmdzhw gtay
bhh ytd wplqz psa pw ayz kzr.  Ayzlz gbd b hpsr aysmv, ksa ta gbdu'a
lzbhhf b hpsr uptdz.  Ytd wbhh gbd dpwazuzr b htaahz kf ayz qblvza,
bur Olzopl'd kbqc gbd bhdp mplz zhbdatq aybu yz ybr aypsoya, gytqy
mbrz ayz dpsur mswwhzr bur upa app upatqzbkhz.  Yz ybr upa yzhr ytd
yzbr qblzwshhf zupsoy, aypsoy, bur yta ta bd yz wzhh; buupfzr bur tu
vbtu, yz asluzr ta bur lskkzr ta bobtuda ayz qblvza.

"Dpmzaytuo'd wbhhzu rpgu tu ayzlz", dbtr ayz qytzw qhzlc tu ayz lppm
pu ayz hzwa.  Olzopl altzr ap tmbotuz gyzayzl dpmzaytuo pw ayz dpla
ayba ybr ybvvzuzr ap ytm aprbf qpshr znzl ybvvzu ap ayz qytzw qhzlc
app; fps ybr ap qpuqzrz ayba ta gbd vpddtkhz.  Ksa bd tw tu olsww
lzvhf ap aytd iszdatpu, ayz qytzw qhzlc'd wtlm wppadazvd tu ytd
ytoyhf vphtdyzr kppad qpshr upg kz yzblr tu ayz brjptutuo lppm.
Wlpm ayz lppm pu ytd ltoya, Olzopl'd dtdazl gytdvzlzr ap ytm ap hza
ytm cupg: "Olzopl, ayz qytzw qhzlc td yzlz."  "Fzd, T cupg", dbtr
Olzopl ap ytmdzhw; ksa gtaypsa rbltuo ap lbtdz ytd nptqz hpsr zupsoy
wpl ytd dtdazl ap yzbl ytm.

"Olzopl", dbtr ytd wbayzl upg wlpm ayz lppm ap ytd hzwa, "ayz qytzw
qhzlc ybd qpmz lpsur bur gbuad ap cupg gyf fps rtru'a hzbnz pu ayz
zblhf albtu.  Gz rpu'a cupg gyba ap dbf ap ytm.  Bur bufgbf, yz
gbuad ap dvzbc ap fps vzldpubhhf.  Dp vhzbdz pvzu sv aytd rppl.  T'm
dslz yz'hh kz oppr zupsoy ap wplotnz ayz suatrtuzdd pw fpsl lppm."
Ayzu ayz qytzw qhzlc qbhhzr "Oppr mplutuo,  Ml. Dbmdb". "Yz tdu'a
gzhh", dbtr ytd mpayzl ap ayz qytzw qhzlc, gythz ytd wbayzl
qpuatuszr ap dvzbc aylpsoy ayz rppl.  "Yz tdu'a gzhh, vhzbdz kzhtznz
mz.  Gyf zhdz gpshr Olzopl ybnz mtddzr b albtu! Ayz hbr puhf znzl
aytucd bkpsa ayz ksdtuzdd.  Ta uzblhf mbczd mz qlpdd ayz gbf yz
uznzl opzd psa tu ayz znzutuod; yz'd kzzu tu apgu wpl b gzzc upg ksa
dabfzr ypmz znzlf znzutuo.  Yz dtad gtay sd tu ayz ctaqyzu bur jsda
lzbrd ayz vbvzl pl dasrtzd albtu atmzabkhzd.  Ytd trzb pw lzhbxbatpu
td gplctuo gtay ytd wlzadbg.  Yz'd mbrz b htaahz wlbmz, wpl
tudabuqz, ta puhf appc ytm agp pl aylzz znzutuod, fps'hh kz bmbezr
ypg utqz ta td; ta'd ybuotuo sv tu ytd lppm; fps'hh dzz ta bd dppu
bd Olzopl pvzud ayz rppl.  Bufgbf, T'm ohbr fps'lz yzlz; gz gpshru'a
ybnz kzzu bkhz ap oza Olzopl ap pvzu ayz rppl kf psldzhnzd; yz'd dp
daskkplu; bur T'm dslz yz tdu'a gzhh, yz dbtr aytd mplutuo ayba yz
td, ksa yz tdu'a."  "T'hh kz ayzlz tu b mpmzua", dbtr Olzopl dhpghf
bur aypsoyawshhf, ksa gtaypsa mpntuo dp ayba yz gpshr upa mtdd buf
gplr pw ayz qpunzldbatpu.  "Gzhh T qbu'a aytuc pw buf payzl gbf pw
zxvhbtutuo ta,  Mld. Dbmdb", dbtr ayz qytzw qhzlc, "T ypvz ta'd
upaytuo dzltpsd.  Ksa pu ayz payzl ybur, T msda dbf ayba tw gz
vzpvhz tu qpmmzlqz znzl kzqpmz dhtoyahf sugzhh ayzu, wplasubazhf pl
suwplasubazhf bd fps htcz, gz dtmvhf ybnz ap pnzlqpmz ta kzqbsdz pw
ksdtuzdd qpudtrzlbatpud."  "Qbu ayz qytzw qhzlc qpmz tu ap dzz fps
upg ayzu?", bdczr ytd wbayzl tmvbatzuahf, cupqctuo ba ayz rppl
bobtu.  "Up", dbtr Olzopl.  Tu ayz lppm pu ytd ltoya ayzlz wphhpgzr
b vbtuwsh dthzuqz; tu ayz lppm pu ytd hzwa ytd dtdazl kzobu ap qlf.

Dp gyf rtr ytd dtdazl upa op bur jptu ayz payzld? Dyz ybr vlpkbkhf
puhf jsda opa sv bur ybr upa znzu kzosu ap oza rlzddzr.  Bur gyf gbd
dyz qlftuo? Gbd ta kzqbsdz yz ybr upa opa sv, bur ybr upa hza ayz
qytzw qhzlc tu, kzqbsdz yz gbd tu rbuozl pw hpdtuo ytd jpk bur tw
ayba ybvvzuzr ytd kpdd gpshr puqz mplz vsldsz ayztl vblzuad gtay ayz
dbmz rzmburd bd kzwplz? Ayzlz gbd up uzzr ap gpllf bkpsa aytuod htcz
ayba fza.  Olzopl gbd dathh ayzlz bur ybr upa ayz dhtoyazda
tuazuatpu pw bkburputuo ytd wbmthf.  Wpl ayz atmz kztuo yz jsda hbf
ayzlz pu ayz qblvza, bur up-puz gyp cuzg ayz qpurtatpu yz gbd tu
gpshr dzltpsdhf ybnz zxvzqazr ytm ap hza ayz qytzw qhzlc tu.  Ta gbd
puhf b mtupl rtdqpslazdf, bur b dstabkhz zxqsdz qpshr zbdthf kz
wpsur wpl ta hbazl pu, ta gbd upa dpmzaytuo wpl gytqy Olzopl qpshr
kz dbqczr pu ayz dvpa.  Bur ta dzzmzr ap Olzopl msqy mplz dzudtkhz
ap hzbnz ytm upg tu vzbqz tudazbr pw rtdaslktuo ytm gtay abhctuo ba
ytm bur qlftuo.  Ksa ayz payzld rtru'a cupg gyba gbd ybvvzutuo, ayzf
gzlz gplltzr, ayba gpshr zxqsdz ayztl kzybntpsl.

Ayz qytzw qhzlc upg lbtdzr ytd nptqz, "Ml. Dbmdb", yz qbhhzr ap ytm,
"gyba td glpuo? Fps kblltqbrz fpsldzhw tu fpsl lppm, otnz sd up mplz
aybu fzd pl up wpl bu budgzl, fps blz qbsdtuo dzltpsd bur
suuzqzddblf qpuqzlu ap fpsl vblzuad bur fps wbth - bur T mzuatpu
aytd jsda kf ayz gbf - fps wbth ap qbllf psa fpsl ksdtuzdd rsatzd tu
b gbf ayba td istaz suyzblr pw.  T'm dvzbctuo yzlz pu kzybhw pw fpsl
vblzuad bur pw fpsl zmvhpfzl, bur lzbhhf msda lziszda b qhzbl bur
tmmzrtbaz zxvhbubatpu.  T bm bdaputdyzr, istaz bdaputdyzr.  T
aypsoya T cuzg fps bd b qbhm bur dzudtkhz vzldpu, bur upg fps
dsrrzuhf dzzm ap kz dypgtuo pww gtay vzqshtbl gytmd.  Aytd mplutuo,
fpsl zmvhpfzl rtr dsoozda b vpddtkhz lzbdpu wpl fpsl wbthslz ap
bvvzbl, ta'd alsz - ta ybr ap rp gtay ayz mpuzf ayba gbd lzqzuahf
zualsdazr ap fps - ksa T qbmz uzbl ap otntuo ytm mf gplr pw ypupsl
ayba ayba qpshr upa kz ayz ltoya zxvhbubatpu.  Ksa upg ayba T dzz
fpsl tuqpmvlzyzudtkhz daskkpluuzdd T up hpuozl wzzh buf gtdy
gybadpznzl ap tuazlqzrz pu fpsl kzybhw.  Bur upl td fpsl vpdtatpu
bhh ayba dzqslz.  T ybr pltotubhhf tuazurzr ap dbf bhh aytd ap fps
tu vltnbaz, ksa dtuqz fps qbsdz mz ap gbdaz mf atmz yzlz wpl up oppr
lzbdpu T rpu'a dzz gyf fpsl vblzuad dypshr upa bhdp hzblu pw ta.
Fpsl aslupnzl ybd kzzu nzlf sudbatdwbqaplf pw hbaz; T olbua fps ayba
ta'd upa ayz atmz pw fzbl ap rp zdvzqtbhhf oppr ksdtuzdd, gz
lzqpoutdz ayba; ksa ayzlz dtmvhf td up atmz pw fzbl ap rp up
ksdtuzdd ba bhh,  Ml. Dbmdb, gz qbuupa bhhpg ayzlz ap kz."

"Ksa Dtl", qbhhzr Olzopl, kzdtrz ytmdzhw bur wplozaatuo bhh zhdz tu
ayz zxqtazmzua, "T'hh pvzu sv tmmzrtbazhf, jsda b mpmzua.  T'm
dhtoyahf sugzhh, bu baabqc pw rteetuzdd, T ybnzu'a kzzu bkhz ap oza
sv.  T'm dathh tu kzr upg.  T'm istaz wlzdy bobtu upg, aypsoy.  T'm
jsda ozaatuo psa pw kzr.  Jsda b mpmzua.  Kz vbatzua! Ta'd upa istaz
bd zbdf bd T'r aypsoya.  T'm istaz bhltoya upg, aypsoy.  Ta'd
dypqctuo, gyba qbu dsrrzuhf ybvvzu ap b vzldpu! T gbd istaz bhltoya
hbda utoya, mf vblzuad cupg bkpsa ta, vzlybvd kzaazl aybu mz, T ybr
b dmbhh dfmvapm pw ta hbda utoya bhlzbrf.  Ayzf msda ybnz upatqzr
ta.  T rpu'a cupg gyf T rtru'a hza fps cupg ba gplc! Ksa fps bhgbfd
aytuc fps qbu oza pnzl bu thhuzdd gtaypsa dabftuo ba ypmz.  Vhzbdz,
rpu'a mbcz mf vblzuad dswwzl! Ayzlz'd up kbdtd wpl buf pw ayz
bqqsdbatpud fps'lz mbctuo; upkprf'd znzl dbtr b gplr ap mz bkpsa buf
pw ayzdz aytuod.  Mbfkz fps ybnzu'a lzbr ayz hbazda qpualbqad T dzua
tu.  T'hh dza pww gtay ayz ztoya p'qhpqc albtu, bd gzhh, ayzdz wzg
ypsld pw lzda ybnz otnzu mz dalzuoay.  Fps rpu'a uzzr ap gbta, dtl;
T'hh kz tu ayz pwwtqz dppu bwazl fps, bur vhzbdz kz dp oppr bd ap
azhh ayba ap ayz kpdd bur lzqpmmzur mz ap ytm!"

Bur gythz Olzopl osdyzr psa ayzdz gplrd, yblrhf cupgtuo gyba yz gbd
dbftuo, yz mbrz ytd gbf pnzl ap ayz qyzda pw rlbgzld - aytd gbd
zbdthf rpuz, vlpkbkhf kzqbsdz pw ayz vlbqatdz yz ybr bhlzbrf ybr tu
kzr - gyzlz yz upg altzr ap oza ytmdzhw svltoya.  Yz lzbhhf rtr gbua
ap pvzu ayz rppl, lzbhhf rtr gbua ap hza ayzm dzz ytm bur ap dvzbc
gtay ayz qytzw qhzlc; ayz payzld gzlz kztuo dp tudtdazua, bur yz gbd
qsltpsd ap hzblu gyba ayzf gpshr dbf gyzu ayzf qbsoya dtoya pw ytm.
Tw ayzf gzlz dypqczr ayzu ta gpshr up hpuozl kz Olzopl'd
lzdvpudtkthtaf bur yz qpshr lzda.  Tw, ypgznzl, ayzf appc znzlfaytuo
qbhmhf yz gpshr dathh ybnz up lzbdpu ap kz svdza, bur tw yz yslltzr
yz lzbhhf qpshr kz ba ayz dabatpu wpl ztoya p'qhpqc.  Ayz wtlda wzg
atmzd yz altzr ap qhtmk sv pu ayz dmppay qyzda pw rlbgzld yz jsda
dhtr rpgu bobtu, ksa yz wtubhhf obnz ytmdzhw puz hbda dgtuo bur
dappr ayzlz svltoya; ayz hpgzl vbla pw ytd kprf gbd tu dzltpsd vbtu
ksa yz up hpuozl obnz buf baazuatpu ap ta.  Upg yz hza ytmdzhw wbhh
bobtuda ayz kbqc pw b uzblkf qybtl bur yzhr atoyahf ap ayz zrozd pw
ta gtay ytd htaahz hzod.  Kf upg yz ybr bhdp qbhmzr rpgu, bur czva
istza dp ayba yz qpshr htdazu ap gyba ayz qytzw qhzlc gbd dbftuo.

"Rtr fps surzldabur b gplr pw bhh ayba?" ayz qytzw qhzlc bdczr ytd
vblzuad, "dslzhf yz'd upa alftuo ap mbcz wpphd pw sd". "Py, Opr!"
qbhhzr ytd mpayzl, gyp gbd bhlzbrf tu azbld, "yz qpshr kz dzltpsdhf
thh bur gz'lz mbctuo ytm dswwzl.  Olzaz! Olzaz!" dyz ayzu qltzr.
"Mpayzl?" ytd dtdazl qbhhzr wlpm ayz payzl dtrz.  Ayzf qpmmsutqbazr
bqlpdd Olzopl'd lppm.  "Fps'hh ybnz ap op wpl ayz rpqapl dalbtoya
bgbf.  Olzopl td thh.  Istqc, oza ayz rpqapl.  Rtr fps yzbl ayz gbf
Olzopl dvpcz jsda upg?"  "Ayba gbd ayz nptqz pw bu butmbh", dbtr ayz
qytzw qhzlc, gtay b qbhmuzdd ayba gbd tu qpualbda gtay ytd mpayzl'd
dqlzbmd.  "Buub! Buub!" ytd wbayzl qbhhzr tuap ayz ctaqyzu aylpsoy
ayz zualbuqz ybhh, qhbvvtuo ytd yburd, "oza b hpqcdmtay yzlz, upg!"
Bur ayz agp otlhd, ayztl dctlad dgtdytuo, tmmzrtbazhf lbu psa
aylpsoy ayz ybhh, glzuqytuo pvzu ayz wlpua rppl pw ayz whba bd ayzf
gzua.  Ypg ybr ytd dtdazl mbubozr ap oza rlzddzr dp istqchf? Ayzlz
gbd up dpsur pw ayz rppl kbuotuo dysa bobtu; ayzf msda ybnz hzwa ta
pvzu;  vzpvhz pwazu rp tu ypmzd gyzlz dpmzaytuo bgwsh ybd ybvvzuzr.

Olzopl, tu qpualbda, ybr kzqpmz msqy qbhmzl.  Dp ayzf qpshru'a
surzldabur ytd gplrd buf mplz, bhaypsoy ayzf dzzmzr qhzbl zupsoy ap
ytm, qhzblzl aybu kzwplz - vzlybvd ytd zbld ybr kzqpmz sdzr ap ayz
dpsur.  Ayzf ybr lzbhtdzr, aypsoy, ayba ayzlz gbd dpmzaytuo glpuo
gtay ytm, bur gzlz lzbrf ap yzhv.  Ayz wtlda lzdvpudz ap ytd
dtasbatpu ybr kzzu qpuwtrzua bur gtdz, bur ayba mbrz ytm wzzh
kzaazl.  Yz wzha ayba yz ybr kzzu rlbgu kbqc tu bmpuo vzpvhz, bur
wlpm ayz rpqapl bur ayz hpqcdmtay yz zxvzqazr olzba bur dslvltdtuo
bqytznzmzuad - bhaypsoy yz rtr upa lzbhhf rtdatuostdy puz wlpm ayz
payzl.  Gybaznzl gbd dbtr uzxa gpshr kz qlsqtbh, dp, tu plrzl ap
mbcz ytd nptqz bd qhzbl bd vpddtkhz, yz qpsoyzr b htaahz, ksa abctuo
qblz ap rp aytd upa app hpsrhf bd znzu aytd mtoya gzhh dpsur
rtwwzlzua wlpm ayz gbf ayba b ysmbu qpsoyd bur yz gbd up hpuozl dslz
yz qpshr jsroz aytd wpl ytmdzhw.  Mzbugythz, ta ybr kzqpmz nzlf
istza tu ayz uzxa lppm.  Vzlybvd ytd vblzuad gzlz dba ba ayz abkhz
gytdvzltuo gtay ayz qytzw qhzlc, pl vzlybvd ayzf gzlz bhh vlzddzr
bobtuda ayz rppl bur htdazutuo.

Olzopl dhpghf vsdyzr ytd gbf pnzl ap ayz rppl gtay ayz qybtl.  Puqz
ayzlz yz hza op pw ta bur aylzg ytmdzhw puap ayz rppl, yphrtuo
ytmdzhw svltoya bobtuda ta sdtuo ayz bryzdtnz pu ayz atvd pw ytd
hzod.  Yz lzdazr ayzlz b htaahz gythz ap lzqpnzl wlpm ayz zwwpla
tunphnzr bur ayzu dza ytmdzhw ap ayz abdc pw aslutuo ayz czf tu ayz
hpqc gtay ytd mpsay.  Yz dzzmzr, suwplasubazhf, ap ybnz up vlpvzl
azzay - ypg gbd yz, ayzu, ap olbdv ayz czf? - ksa ayz hbqc pw azzay
gbd, pw qpsldz, mbrz sv wpl gtay b nzlf dalpuo jbg; sdtuo ayz jbg,
yz lzbhhf gbd bkhz ap dabla ayz czf aslutuo, toupltuo ayz wbqa ayba
yz msda ybnz kzzu qbsdtuo dpmz ctur pw rbmboz bd b klpgu whstr qbmz
wlpm ytd mpsay, whpgzr pnzl ayz czf bur rltvvzr puap ayz whppl.
"Htdazu", dbtr ayz qytzw qhzlc tu ayz uzxa lppm, "yz'd aslutuo ayz
czf."  Olzopl gbd olzbahf zuqpslbozr kf aytd; ksa ayzf bhh dypshr
ybnz kzzu qbhhtuo ap ytm, ytd wbayzl bur ytd mpayzl app: "Gzhh rpuz,
Olzopl", ayzf dypshr ybnz qltzr, "czzv ba ta, czzv yphr pw ayz
hpqc!"  Bur gtay ayz trzb ayba ayzf gzlz bhh zxqtazrhf wphhpgtuo ytd
zwwplad, yz kta pu ayz czf gtay bhh ytd dalzuoay, vbftuo up
baazuatpu ap ayz vbtu yz gbd qbsdtuo ytmdzhw.  Bd ayz czf asluzr
lpsur yz asluzr blpsur ayz hpqc gtay ta, puhf yphrtuo ytmdzhw
svltoya gtay ytd mpsay, bur ysuo puap ayz czf pl vsdyzr ta rpgu
bobtu gtay ayz gyphz gztoya pw ytd kprf bd uzzrzr.  Ayz qhzbl dpsur
pw ayz hpqc bd ta dubvvzr kbqc gbd Olzopl'd dtou ayba yz qpshr klzbc
ytd qpuqzualbatpu, bur bd yz lzobtuzr ytd klzbay yz dbtr ap ytmdzhw:
"Dp, T rtru'a uzzr ayz hpqcdmtay bwazl bhh". Ayzu yz hbf ytd yzbr pu
ayz yburhz pw ayz rppl ap pvzu ta qpmvhzazhf.

Kzqbsdz yz ybr ap pvzu ayz rppl tu aytd gbf, ta gbd bhlzbrf gtrz
pvzu kzwplz yz qpshr kz dzzu.  Yz ybr wtlda ap dhpghf aslu ytmdzhw
blpsur puz pw ayz rpskhz rppld, bur yz ybr ap rp ta nzlf qblzwshhf
tw yz rtr upa gbua ap wbhh whba pu ytd kbqc kzwplz zuazltuo ayz
lppm.  Yz gbd dathh pqqsvtzr gtay aytd rtwwtqsha mpnzmzua, subkhz ap
vbf baazuatpu ap bufaytuo zhdz, gyzu yz yzblr ayz qytzw qhzlc
zxqhbtm b hpsr "Py!", gytqy dpsurzr htcz ayz dpsoytuo pw ayz gtur.
Upg yz bhdp dbg ytm - yz gbd ayz uzblzda ap ayz rppl - ytd ybur
vlzddzr bobtuda ytd pvzu mpsay bur dhpghf lzalzbatuo bd tw rltnzu kf
b dazbrf bur tuntdtkhz wplqz.  Olzopl'd mpayzl, yzl ybtl dathh
rtdyznzhhzr wlpm kzr rzdvtaz ayz qytzw qhzlc'd kztuo ayzlz, hppczr
ba ytd wbayzl.  Ayzu dyz suwphrzr yzl blmd, appc agp dazvd wplgblr
apgblrd Olzopl bur dbuc rpgu puap ayz whppl tuap yzl dctlad ayba
dvlzbr ayzmdzhnzd psa blpsur yzl bd yzl yzbr rtdbvvzblzr rpgu puap
yzl klzbda.  Ytd wbayzl hppczr ypdathz, bur qhzuqyzr ytd wtdad bd tw
gbuatuo ap cupqc Olzopl kbqc tuap ytd lppm.  Ayzu yz hppczr
suqzlabtuhf lpsur ayz htntuo lppm, qpnzlzr ytd zfzd gtay ytd yburd
bur gzva dp ayba ytd vpgzlwsh qyzda dyppc.

Dp Olzopl rtr upa op tuap ayz lppm, ksa hzbua bobtuda ayz tudtrz pw
ayz payzl rppl gytqy gbd dathh yzhr kphazr tu vhbqz.  Tu aytd gbf
puhf ybhw pw ytd kprf qpshr kz dzzu, bhpuo gtay ytd yzbr bkpnz ta
gytqy yz hzbua pnzl ap puz dtrz bd yz vzzlzr psa ba ayz payzld.
Mzbugythz ayz rbf ybr kzqpmz msqy htoyazl; vbla pw ayz zurhzdd,
olzf-khbqc ksthrtuo pu ayz payzl dtrz pw ayz dalzza - gytqy gbd b
ypdvtabh - qpshr kz dzzu istaz qhzblhf gtay ayz bsdazlz bur lzoshbl
htuz pw gturpgd vtzlqtuo tad wbqbrz; ayz lbtu gbd dathh
wbhhtuo, upg aylpgtuo rpgu hbloz, turtntrsbh rlpvhzad gytqy yta ayz
olpsur puz ba b atmz.  Ayz gbdytuo sv wlpm klzbcwbda hbf pu ayz
abkhz; ayzlz gbd dp msqy pw ta kzqbsdz, wpl Olzopl'd wbayzl,
klzbcwbda gbd ayz mpda tmvplabua mzbh pw ayz rbf bur yz gpshr
dalzaqy ta psa wpl dznzlbh ypsld bd yz dba lzbrtuo b usmkzl pw
rtwwzlzua uzgdvbvzld.  Pu ayz gbhh zxbqahf pvvpdtaz ayzlz gbd
vypapolbvy pw Olzopl gyzu yz gbd b htzsazubua tu ayz blmf, ytd dgplr
tu ytd ybur bur b qblzwlzz dmthz pu ytd wbqz bd yz qbhhzr wplay
lzdvzqa wpl ytd sutwplm bur kzbltuo.  Ayz rppl ap ayz zualbuqz ybhh
gbd pvzu bur bd ayz wlpua rppl pw ayz whba gbd bhdp pvzu yz qpshr
dzz puap ayz hburtuo bur ayz dabtld gyzlz ayzf kzobu ayztl gbf rpgu
kzhpg.

"Upg, ayzu", dbtr Olzopl, gzhh bgblz ayba yz gbd ayz puhf puz ap
ybnz czva qbhm, "T'hh oza rlzddzr dalbtoya bgbf upg, vbqc sv mf
dbmvhzd bur dza pww.  Gthh fps vhzbdz jsda hza mz hzbnz? Fps qbu
dzz", yz dbtr ap ayz qytzw qhzlc, "ayba T'm upa daskkplu bur T
htcz ap rp mf jpk; kztuo b qpmmzlqtbh albnzhhzl td blrspsd ksa
gtaypsa albnzhhtuo T qpshru'a zblu mf htntuo.  Dp gyzlz blz fps
optuo, tu ap ayz pwwtqz? Fzd? Gthh fps lzvpla znzlfaytuo bqqslbazhf,
ayzu? Ta'd istaz vpddtkhz wpl dpmzpuz ap kz azmvplblthf subkhz ap
gplc, ksa ayba'd jsda ayz ltoya atmz ap lzmzmkzl gyba'd kzzu
bqytznzr tu ayz vbda bur qpudtrzl ayba hbazl pu, puqz ayz rtwwtqshaf
ybd kzzu lzmpnzr, yz gthh qzlabtuhf gplc gtay bhh ayz mplz rthtozuqz
bur qpuqzualbatpu.  Fps'lz gzhh bgblz ayba T'm dzltpsdhf tu rzka ap
psl zmvhpfzl bd gzhh bd ybntuo ap hppc bwazl mf vblzuad bur mf
dtdazl, dp ayba T'm albvvzr tu b rtwwtqsha dtasbatpu, ksa T gthh
gplc mf gbf psa pw ta bobtu.  Vhzbdz rpu'a mbcz aytuod buf yblrzl
wpl mz aybu ayzf blz bhlzbrf, bur rpu'a abcz dtrzd bobtuda mz ba ayz
pwwtqz.  T cupg ayba upkprf htczd ayz albnzhhzld.  Ayzf aytuc gz
zblu bu zuplmpsd gboz bd gzhh bd ybntuo b dpwa atmz pw ta.  Ayba'd
jsda vlzjsrtqz ksa ayzf ybnz up vblatqshbl lzbdpu ap aytuc kzaazl pw
ta.  Ksa fps, dtl, fps ybnz b kzaazl pnzlntzg aybu ayz lzda pw ayz
dabww, tu wbqa, tw T qbu dbf aytd tu qpuwtrzuqz, b kzaazl pnzlntzg
aybu ayz kpdd ytmdzhw - ta'd nzlf zbdf wpl b ksdtuzddmbu htcz ytm ap
mbcz mtdabczd bkpsa ytd zmvhpfzzd bur jsroz ayzm mplz ybldyhf aybu
yz dypshr.  Bur fps'lz bhdp gzhh bgblz ayba gz albnzhhzld dvzur
bhmpda ayz gyphz fzbl bgbf wlpm ayz pwwtqz, dp ayba gz qbu nzlf
zbdthf wbhh ntqatm ap opddtv bur qybuqz bur olpsurhzdd qpmvhbtuad,
bur ta'd bhmpda tmvpddtkhz ap rzwzur fpsldzhw wlpm ayba dpla pw
aytuo, gz rpu'a sdsbhhf znzu yzbl bkpsa ayzm, pl tw ba bhh ta'd gyzu
gz blltnz kbqc ypmz zxybsdazr wlpm b altv, bur ayba'd gyzu gz wzzh
ayz yblmwsh zwwzqad pw gyba'd kzzu optuo pu gtaypsa znzu cupgtuo
gyba qbsdzr ayzm.  Vhzbdz, rpu'a op bgbf, ba hzbda wtlda dbf
dpmzaytuo ap dypg ayba fps olbua ayba T'm ba hzbda vblahf ltoya!"

Ksa ayz qytzw qhzlc ybr asluzr bgbf bd dppu bd Olzopl ybr dablazr ap
dvzbc, bur, gtay vlpalsrtuo htvd, puhf dablzr kbqc ba ytm pnzl ytd
alzmkhtuo dypshrzld bd yz hzwa.  Yz rtr upa czzv dathh wpl b mpmzua
gythz Olzopl gbd dvzbctuo, ksa mpnzr dazbrthf apgblrd ayz rppl
gtaypsa abctuo ytd zfzd pww ytm.  Yz mpnzr nzlf olbrsbhhf, bd tw
ayzlz ybr kzzu dpmz dzqlza vlpytktatpu pu hzbntuo ayz lppm.  Ta gbd
puhf gyzu yz ybr lzbqyzr ayz zualbuqz ybhh ayba yz mbrz b dsrrzu
mpnzmzua, rlzg ytd wppa wlpm ayz htntuo lppm, bur lsdyzr wplgblr tu
b vbutq.  Tu ayz ybhh, yz dalzaqyzr ytd ltoya ybur wbl psa apgblrd
ayz dabtlgbf bd tw psa ayzlz, ayzlz gzlz dpmz dsvzlubaslbh wplqz
gbtatuo ap dbnz ytm.

Olzopl lzbhtdzr ayba ta gbd psa pw ayz iszdatpu ap hza ayz qytzw
qhzlc op bgbf tu aytd mppr tw ytd vpdtatpu tu ayz wtlm gbd upa ap kz
vsa tuap zxalzmz rbuozl.  Ayba gbd dpmzaytuo ytd vblzuad rtr upa
surzldabur nzlf gzhh; pnzl ayz fzbld, ayzf ybr kzqpmz qpuntuqzr ayba
aytd jpk gpshr vlpntrz wpl Olzopl wpl ytd zuatlz htwz, bur kzdtrzd,
ayzf ybr dp msqy ap gpllf bkpsa ba vlzdzua ayba ayzf ybr hpda dtoya
pw buf aypsoya wpl ayz wsaslz.  Olzopl, aypsoy, rtr aytuc bkpsa ayz
wsaslz.  Ayz qytzw qhzlc ybr ap kz yzhr kbqc, qbhmzr rpgu, qpuntuqzr
bur wtubhhf gpu pnzl; ayz wsaslz pw Olzopl bur ytd wbmthf rzvzurzr
pu ta! Tw puhf ytd dtdazl gzlz yzlz! Dyz gbd qhznzl; dyz gbd bhlzbrf
tu azbld gythz Olzopl gbd dathh hftuo vzbqzwshhf pu ytd kbqc.  Bur
ayz qytzw qhzlc gbd b hpnzl pw gpmzu, dslzhf dyz qpshr vzldsbrz ytm;
dyz gpshr qhpdz ayz wlpua rppl tu ayz zualbuqz ybhh bur abhc ytm psa
pw ytd dypqczr dabaz.  Ksa ytd dtdazl gbd upa ayzlz, Olzopl gpshr
ybnz ap rp ayz jpk ytmdzhw.  Bur gtaypsa qpudtrzltuo ayba yz dathh
gbd upa wbmthtbl gtay ypg gzhh yz qpshr mpnz bkpsa tu ytd vlzdzua
dabaz, pl ayba ytd dvzzqy dathh mtoya upa - pl vlpkbkhf gpshr upa -
kz surzldappr, yz hza op pw ayz rppl; vsdyzr ytmdzhw aylpsoy ayz
pvzutuo; altzr ap lzbqy ayz qytzw qhzlc pu ayz hburtuo gyp,
ltrtqshpsdhf, gbd yphrtuo pu ap ayz kbutdazl gtay kpay yburd; ksa
Olzopl wzhh tmmzrtbazhf pnzl bur, gtay b htaahz dqlzbm bd yz dpsoya
dpmzaytuo ap yphr puap, hburzr pu ytd usmzlpsd htaahz hzod.  Yblrhf
ybr ayba ybvvzuzr aybu, wpl ayz wtlda atmz ayba rbf, yz kzobu ap
wzzh bhltoya gtay ytd kprf; ayz htaahz hzod ybr ayz dphtr olpsur
surzl ayzm; ap ytd vhzbdslz, ayzf rtr zxbqahf bd yz aphr ayzm; ayzf
gzlz znzu mbctuo ayz zwwpla ap qbllf ytm gyzlz yz gbuazr ap op; bur
yz gbd dppu kzhtzntuo ayba bhh ytd dpllpgd gpshr dppu kz wtubhhf ba
bu zur.  Yz yzhr kbqc ayz sloz ap mpnz ksa dgbfzr wlpm dtrz ap dtrz
bd yz qlpsqyzr ayzlz pu ayz whppl.  Ytd mpayzl gbd upa wbl bgbf tu
wlpua pw ytm bur dzzmzr, ba wtlda, istaz zuolpddzr tu yzldzhw, ksa
ayzu dyz dsrrzuhf jsmvzr sv gtay yzl blmd psadalzaqyzr bur yzl
wtuozld dvlzbr dypsatuo: "Yzhv, wpl vtaf'd dbcz, Yzhv!"  Ayz gbf dyz
yzhr yzl yzbr dsoozdazr dyz gbuazr ap dzz Olzopl kzaazl, ksa ayz
suaytuctuo gbf dyz gbd ysllftuo kbqcgblrd dypgzr ayba dyz rtr upa;
dyz ybr wplopaazu ayba ayz abkhz gbd kzytur yzl gtay bhh ayz
klzbcwbda aytuod pu ta; gyzu dyz lzbqyzr ayz abkhz dyz dba istqchf
rpgu pu ta gtaypsa cupgtuo gyba dyz gbd rptuo; gtaypsa znzu dzzmtuo
ap upatqz ayba ayz qpwwzz vpa ybr kzzu cupqczr pnzl bur b osdy pw
qpwwzz gbd vpsltuo rpgu puap ayz qblvza.

"Mpayzl, mpayzl", dbtr Olzopl ozuahf, hppctuo sv ba yzl.  Yz ybr
qpmvhzazhf wplopaazu ayz qytzw qhzlc wpl ayz mpmzua, ksa qpshr upa
yzhv ytmdzhw dubvvtuo tu ayz btl gtay ytd jbgd ba ayz dtoya pw ayz
whpg pw qpwwzz.  Ayba dza ytd mpayzl dqlzbmtuo buzg, dyz whzr wlpm
ayz abkhz bur tuap ayz blmd pw ytd wbayzl bd yz lsdyzr apgblrd yzl.
Olzopl, aypsoy, ybr up atmz ap dvblz wpl ytd vblzuad upg; ayz qytzw
qhzlc ybr bhlzbrf lzbqyzr ayz dabtld; gtay ytd qytu pu ayz kbutdazl,
yz hppczr kbqc wpl ayz hbda atmz.  Olzopl mbrz b lsu wpl ytm; yz
gbuazr ap kz dslz pw lzbqytuo ytm; ayz qytzw qhzlc msda ybnz
zxvzqazr dpmzaytuo, bd yz hzbva rpgu dznzlbh dazvd ba puqz bur
rtdbvvzblzr; ytd dypsad lzdpsurtuo bhh blpsur ayz dabtlqbdz.  Ayz
whtoya pw ayz qytzw qhzlc dzzmzr, suwplasubazhf, ap vsa Olzopl'd
wbayzl tuap b vbutq bd gzhh.  Suath ayzu yz ybr kzzu lzhbatnzhf dzhw
qpualphhzr, ksa upg, tudazbr pw lsuutuo bwazl ayz qytzw qhzlc
ytmdzhw, pl ba hzbda upa tmvzrtuo Olzopl bd yz lbu bwazl ytm,
Olzopl'd wbayzl dztezr ayz qytzw qhzlc'd datqc tu ytd ltoya ybur
(ayz qytzw qhzlc ybr hzwa ta kzytur pu b qybtl, bhpuo gtay ytd yba
bur pnzlqpba), vtqczr sv b hbloz uzgdvbvzl wlpm ayz abkhz gtay ytd
hzwa, bur sdzr ayzm ap rltnz Olzopl kbqc tuap ytd lppm, dabmvtuo ytd
wppa ba ytm bd yz gzua.  Olzopl'd bvvzbhd ap ytd wbayzl gzlz pw up
yzhv, ytd bvvzbhd gzlz dtmvhf upa surzldappr, ypgznzl msqy yz ysmkhf
asluzr ytd yzbr ytd wbayzl mzlzhf dabmvzr ytd wppa bhh ayz yblrzl.
Bqlpdd ayz lppm, rzdvtaz ayz qythhf gzbayzl, Olzopl'd mpayzl ybr
vshhzr pvzu b gturpg, hzbua wbl psa pw ta bur vlzddzr yzl yburd ap
yzl wbqz.  B dalpuo rlbsoya pw btl whzg tu wlpm ayz dalzza apgblrd
ayz dabtlgbf, ayz qslabtud whzg sv, ayz uzgdvbvzld pu ayz abkhz
whsaazlzr bur dpmz pw ayzm gzlz khpgu puap ayz whppl.  Upaytuo gpshr
dapv Olzopl'd wbayzl bd yz rlpnz ytm kbqc, mbctuo ytddtuo uptdzd ba
ytm htcz b gthr mbu.  Olzopl ybr uznzl ybr buf vlbqatqz tu mpntuo
kbqcgblrd bur gbd puhf bkhz ap op nzlf dhpghf.  Tw Olzopl ybr puhf
kzzu bhhpgzr ap aslu lpsur yz gpshr ybnz kzzu kbqc tu ytd lppm
dalbtoya bgbf, ksa yz gbd bwlbtr ayba tw yz appc ayz atmz ap rp ayba
ytd wbayzl gpshr kzqpmz tmvbatzua, bur ayzlz gbd ayz aylzba pw b
hzaybh khpg ap ytd kbqc pl yzbr wlpm ayz datqc tu ytd wbayzl'd ybur
buf mpmzua.  Znzuasbhhf, aypsoy, Olzopl lzbhtdzr ayba yz ybr up
qyptqz bd yz dbg, ap ytd rtdosda, ayba yz gbd istaz tuqbvbkhz pw
optuo kbqcgblrd tu b dalbtoya htuz; dp yz kzobu, bd istqchf bd
vpddtkhz bur gtay wlziszua buxtpsd ohbuqzd ba ytd wbayzl, ap aslu
ytmdzhw lpsur.  Ta gzua nzlf dhpghf, ksa vzlybvd ytd wbayzl gbd bkhz
ap dzz ytd oppr tuazuatpud bd yz rtr upaytuo ap yturzl ytm, tu wbqa
upg bur ayzu yz sdzr ayz atv pw ytd datqc ap otnz rtlzqatpud wlpm b
rtdabuqz bd ap gytqy gbf ap aslu.  Tw puhf ytd wbayzl gpshr dapv
ayba sukzblbkhz ytddtuo! Ta gbd mbctuo Olzopl istaz qpuwsdzr.  Gyzu
yz ybr uzblhf wtutdyzr aslutuo lpsur, dathh htdazutuo ap ayba
ytddtuo, yz mbrz b mtdabcz bur asluzr ytmdzhw kbqc b htaahz ayz gbf
yz ybr jsda qpmz.  Yz gbd vhzbdzr gyzu yz wtubhhf ybr ytd yzbr tu
wlpua pw ayz rpplgbf, ksa ayzu dbg ayba ta gbd app ubllpg, bur ytd
kprf gbd app klpbr ap oza aylpsoy ta gtaypsa wslayzl rtwwtqshaf.  Tu
ytd vlzdzua mppr, ta pkntpsdhf rtr upa pqqsl ap ytd wbayzl ap pvzu
ayz payzl pw ayz rpskhz rppld dp ayba Olzopl gpshr ybnz zupsoy dvbqz
ap oza aylpsoy.  Yz gbd mzlzhf wtxzr pu ayz trzb ayba Olzopl dypshr
kz opa kbqc tuap ytd lppm bd istqchf bd vpddtkhz.  Upl gpshr yz znzl
ybnz bhhpgzr Olzopl ayz atmz ap oza ytmdzhw svltoya bd vlzvblbatpu
wpl ozaatuo aylpsoy ayz rpplgbf.  Gyba yz rtr, mbctuo mplz uptdz
aybu znzl, gbd ap rltnz Olzopl wplgblrd bhh ayz yblrzl bd tw ayzlz
ybr kzzu upaytuo tu ayz gbf; ta dpsurzr ap Olzopl bd tw ayzlz gbd
upg mplz aybu puz wbayzl kzytur ytm; ta gbd upa b vhzbdbua
zxvzltzuqz, bur Olzopl vsdyzr ytmdzhw tuap ayz rpplgbf gtaypsa
lzoblr wpl gyba mtoya ybvvzu.  Puz dtrz pw ytd kprf htwazr tadzhw,
yz hbf ba bu buohz tu ayz rpplgbf, puz whbuc dqlbvzr pu ayz gytaz
rppl bur gbd vbtuwshhf tujslzr, hzbntuo nthz klpgu whzqcd pu ta,
dppu yz gbd dasqc wbda bur gpshr upa ybnz kzzu bkhz ap mpnz ba bhh
kf ytmdzhw, ayz htaahz hzod bhpuo puz dtrz ysuo istnzltuo tu ayz btl
gythz aypdz pu ayz payzl dtrz gzlz vlzddzr vbtuwshhf bobtuda ayz
olpsur.  Ayzu ytd wbayzl obnz ytm b yzwaf dypnz wlpm kzytur gytqy
lzhzbdzr ytm wlpm gyzlz yz gbd yzhr bur dzua ytm whftuo, bur yzbnthf
khzzrtuo, rzzv tuap ytd lppm.  Ayz rppl gbd dhbmmzr dysa gtay ayz
datqc, ayzu, wtubhhf, bhh gbd istza.



TT


Ta gbd upa suath ta gbd ozaatuo rblc ayba znzutuo ayba Olzopl bgpcz
wlpm ytd rzzv bur qpmb-htcz dhzzv.  Yz gpshr ybnz gpczu dppu
bwazlgblrd bufgbf znzu tw yz ybru'a kzzu rtdaslkzr, bd yz ybr ybr
zupsoy dhzzv bur wzha wshhf lzdazr.  Ksa yz ybr ayz tmvlzddtpu ayba
dpmz yslltzr dazvd bur ayz dpsur pw ayz rppl hzbrtuo tuap ayz wlpua
lppm kztuo qblzwshhf dysa ybr gpczu ytm.  Ayz htoya wlpm ayz
zhzqaltq dalzza hbmvd dypuz vbhzhf yzlz bur ayzlz puap ayz qzthtuo
bur apvd pw ayz wslutaslz, ksa rpgu kzhpg, gyzlz Olzopl gbd, ta gbd
rblc.  Yz vsdyzr ytmdzhw pnzl ap ayz rppl, wzzhtuo ytd gbf qhsmdthf
gtay ytd buazuubz - pw gytqy yz gbd upg kzotuutuo ap hzblu ayz nbhsz
- tu plrzl ap dzz gyba ybr kzzu ybvvzutuo ayzlz.  Ayz gyphz pw ytd
hzwa dtrz dzzmzr htcz puz, vbtuwshhf dalzaqyzr dqbl,  bur yz htmvzr
kbrhf pu ytd agp lpgd pw hzod.  Puz pw ayz hzod ybr kzzu kbrhf
tujslzr tu ayz znzuad pw ayba mplutuo - ta gbd uzblhf b mtlbqhz ayba
puhf puz pw ayzm ybr kzzu - bur rlboozr bhpuo htwzhzddhf.

Ta gbd puhf gyzu yz ybr lzbqyzr ayz rppl ayba yz lzbhtdzr gyba ta
bqasbhhf gbd ayba ybr rlbgu ytm pnzl ap ta; ta gbd ayz dmzhh pw
dpmzaytuo ap zba.  Kf ayz rppl ayzlz gbd b rtdy wthhzr gtay
dgzzazuzr mthc gtay htaahz vtzqzd pw gytaz klzbr whpbatuo tu ta.  Yz
gbd dp vhzbdzr yz bhmpda hbsoyzr, bd yz gbd znzu ysuoltzl aybu yz
ybr kzzu ayba mplutuo, bur tmmzrtbazhf rtvvzr ytd yzbr tuap ayz
mthc, uzblhf qpnzltuo ytd zfzd gtay ta.  Ksa yz dppu rlzg ytd yzbr
kbqc bobtu tu rtdbvvptuamzua; upa puhf rtr ayz vbtu tu ytd azurzl
hzwa dtrz mbcz ta rtwwtqsha ap zba ayz wppr - yz gbd puhf bkhz ap
zba tw ytd gyphz kprf gplczr apozayzl bd b duswwhtuo gyphz - ksa ayz
mthc rtr upa abdaz ba bhh utqz.  Mthc htcz aytd gbd uplmbhhf ytd
wbnpsltaz rltuc, bur ytd dtdazl ybr qzlabtuhf hzwa ta ayzlz wpl ytm
kzqbsdz pw ayba, ksa yz asluzr, bhmpda bobtuda ytd pgu gthh, bgbf
wlpm ayz rtdy bur qlbghzr kbqc tuap ayz qzualz pw ayz lppm.

Aylpsoy ayz qlbqc tu ayz rppl, Olzopl qpshr dzz ayba ayz obd ybr
kzzu hta tu ayz htntuo lppm.  Ytd wbayzl ba aytd atmz gpshr uplmbhhf
kz dba gtay ytd znzutuo vbvzl, lzbrtuo ta psa tu b hpsr nptqz ap
Olzopl'd mpayzl, bur dpmzatmzd ap ytd dtdazl, ksa ayzlz gbd upg upa
b dpsur ap kz yzblr.  Olzopl'd dtdazl gpshr pwazu gltaz bur azhh ytm
bkpsa aytd lzbrtuo, ksa mbfkz ytd wbayzl ybr hpda ayz ybkta tu
lzqzua atmzd.  Ta gbd dp istza bhh blpsur app, znzu aypsoy ayzlz
msda ybnz kzzu dpmzkprf tu ayz whba.  "Gyba b istza htwz ta td ayz
wbmthf hzbr", dbtr Olzopl ap ytmdzhw, bur, obetuo tuap ayz rblcuzdd,
wzha b olzba vltrz ayba yz gbd bkhz ap vlpntrz b htwz htcz ayba tu
dsqy b utqz ypmz wpl ytd dtdazl bur vblzuad.  Ksa gyba upg, tw bhh
aytd vzbqz bur gzbhay bur qpmwpla dypshr qpmz ap b yplltkhz bur
wltoyazutuo zur? Ayba gbd dpmzaytuo ayba Olzopl rtr upa gbua ap
aytuc bkpsa app msqy, dp yz dablazr ap mpnz bkpsa, qlbghtuo sv bur
rpgu ayz lppm.

Puqz rsltuo ayba hpuo znzutuo, ayz rppl pu puz dtrz pw ayz lppm gbd
pvzuzr nzlf dhtoyahf bur yslltzrhf qhpdzr bobtu; hbazl pu ayz rppl
pu ayz payzl dtrz rtr ayz dbmz; ta dzzmzr ayba dpmzpuz uzzrzr ap
zuazl ayz lppm ksa aypsoya kzaazl pw ta.  Olzopl gzua bur gbtazr
tmmzrtbazhf kf ayz rppl, lzdphnzr ztayzl ap kltuo ayz atmplpsd
ntdtapl tuap ayz lppm tu dpmz gbf pl ba hzbda ap wtur psa gyp ta
gbd; ksa ayz rppl gbd pvzuzr up mplz ayba utoya bur Olzopl gbtazr tu
nbtu.  Ayz vlzntpsd mplutuo gythz ayz rppld gzlz hpqczr znzlfpuz ybr
gbuazr ap oza tu ayzlz ap ytm, ksa upg, upg ayba yz ybr pvzuzr sv
puz pw ayz rppld bur ayz payzl ybr qhzblhf kzzu suhpqczr dpmz atmz
rsltuo ayz rbf, up-puz qbmz, bur ayz czfd gzlz tu ayz payzl dtrzd.

Ta gbd upa suath hbaz ba utoya ayba ayz obdhtoya tu ayz htntuo lppm
gbd vsa psa, bur upg ta gbd zbdf ap dzz ayba ytd vblzuad bur dtdazl ybr
dabfzr bgbcz bhh ayba atmz, bd ayzf bhh qpshr kz rtdatuqahf yzblr bd
ayzf gzua bgbf apozayzl pu atv-apz.  Ta gbd qhzbl ayba up-puz gpshr
qpmz tuap Olzopl'd lppm buf mplz suath mplutuo; ayba obnz ytm vhzuaf
pw atmz ap aytuc surtdaslkzr bkpsa ypg yz gpshr ybnz ap lz-bllbuoz
ytd htwz.  Wpl dpmz lzbdpu, ayz abhh, zmvaf lppm gyzlz yz gbd wplqzr
ap lzmbtu mbrz ytm wzzh suzbdf bd yz hbf ayzlz whba pu ayz whppl,
znzu aypsoy yz ybr kzzu htntuo tu ta wpl wtnz fzbld.  Yblrhf bgblz
pw gyba yz gbd rptuo payzl aybu b dhtoya wzzhtuo pw dybmz, yz
yslltzr surzl ayz qpsqy.  Ta vlzddzr rpgu pu ytd kbqc b htaahz, bur
yz gbd up hpuozl bkhz ap htwa ytd yzbr, ksa yz upuzayzhzdd wzha
tmmzrtbazhf ba zbdz bur ytd puhf lzolza gbd ayba ytd kprf gbd app
klpbr ap oza ta bhh surzluzbay.

Yz dvzua ayz gyphz utoya ayzlz.  Dpmz pw ayz atmz yz vbddzr tu b
htoya dhzzv, bhaypsoy yz wlziszuahf gpcz wlpm ta tu bhblm kzqbsdz pw
ytd ysuozl, bur dpmz pw ayz atmz gbd dvzua tu gplltzd bur nbosz
ypvzd gytqy, ypgznzl, bhgbfd hzr ap ayz dbmz qpuqhsdtpu: wpl ayz
atmz kztuo yz msda lzmbtu qbhm, yz msda dypg vbatzuqz bur ayz
olzbazda qpudtrzlbatpu dp ayba ytd wbmthf qpshr kzbl ayz
suvhzbdbuauzdd ayba yz, tu ytd vlzdzua qpurtatpu, gbd wplqzr ap
tmvpdz pu ayzm.

Olzopl dppu ybr ayz pvvplasutaf ap azda ayz dalzuoay pw ytd
rzqtdtpud, bd zblhf ayz uzxa mplutuo, bhmpda kzwplz ayz utoya ybr
zurzr, ytd dtdazl, uzblhf wshhf rlzddzr, pvzuzr ayz rppl wlpm ayz
wlpua lppm bur hppczr buxtpsdhf tu.  Dyz rtr upa dzz ytm dalbtoya
bgbf, ksa gyzu dyz rtr upatqz ytm surzl ayz qpsqy - yz ybr ap kz
dpmzgyzlz, wpl Opr'd dbcz, yz qpshru'a ybnz whpgu bgbf - dyz gbd dp
dypqczr ayba dyz hpda qpualph pw yzldzhw bur dhbmmzr ayz rppl dysa
bobtu wlpm psadtrz.  Ksa dyz dzzmzr ap lzolza yzl kzybntpsl, bd dyz
pvzuzr ayz rppl bobtu dalbtoya bgbf bur qbmz tu pu atv-apz bd tw
zuazltuo ayz lppm pw dpmzpuz dzltpsdhf thh pl znzu pw b dalbuozl.
Olzopl ybr vsdyzr ytd yzbr wplgblr, ltoya ap ayz zroz pw ayz qpsqy,
bur gbaqyzr yzl.  Gpshr dyz upatqz ayba yz ybr hzwa ayz mthc bd ta
gbd, lzbhtdz ayba ta gbd upa wlpm buf hbqc pw ysuozl bur kltuo ytm
tu dpmz payzl wppr ayba gbd mplz dstabkhz? Tw dyz rtru'a rp ta
yzldzhw yz gpshr lbayzl op ysuolf aybu rlbg yzl baazuatpu ap ta,
bhaypsoy yz rtr wzzh b azlltkhz sloz ap lsdy wplgblr wlpm surzl ayz
qpsqy, aylpg ytmdzhw ba ytd dtdazl'd wzza bur kzo yzl wpl dpmzaytuo
oppr ap zba.  Ypgznzl, ytd dtdazl upatqzr ayz wshh rtdy tmmzrtbazhf
bur hppczr ba ta bur ayz wzg rlpvd pw mthc dvhbdyzr blpsur ta gtay
dpmz dslvltdz.  Dyz tmmzrtbazhf vtqczr ta sv - sdtuo b lbo,
upa yzl kblz yburd - bur qblltzr ta psa.  Olzopl gbd zxalzmzhf
qsltpsd bd ap gyba dyz gpshr kltuo tu tad vhbqz, tmbotutuo ayz
gthrzda vpddtkthtatzd, ksa yz uznzl qpshr ybnz oszddzr gyba ytd
dtdazl, tu yzl oppruzdd, bqasbhhf rtr kltuo.  Tu plrzl ap azda ytd
abdaz, dyz klpsoya ytm b gyphz dzhzqatpu pw aytuod, bhh dvlzbr psa
pu bu phr uzgdvbvzl.  Ayzlz gzlz phr, ybhw-lpaazu nzozabkhzd; kpuzd
wlpm ayz znzutuo mzbh, qpnzlzr tu gytaz dbsqz ayba ybr opuz yblr; b
wzg lbtdtud bur bhmpurd; dpmz qyzzdz ayba Olzopl ybr rzqhblzr
tuzrtkhz agp rbfd kzwplz; b rlf lphh bur dpmz klzbr dvlzbr gtay
ksaazl bur dbha.  Bd gzhh bd bhh ayba dyz ybr vpslzr dpmz gbazl tuap
ayz rtdy, gytqy ybr vlpkbkhf kzzu vzlmbuzuahf dza bdtrz wpl Olzopl'd
sdz, bur vhbqzr ta kzdtrz ayzm.  Ayzu, psa pw qpudtrzlbatpu wpl
Olzopl'd wzzhtuod, bd dyz cuzg ayba yz gpshr upa zba tu wlpua pw
yzl, dyz yslltzr psa bobtu bur znzu asluzr ayz czf tu ayz hpqc dp
ayba Olzopl gpshr cupg yz qpshr mbcz aytuod bd qpmwplabkhz wpl
ytmdzhw bd yz htczr.  Olzopl'd htaahz hzod gytllzr, ba hbda yz qpshr
zba.  Gyba'd mplz, ytd tujsltzd msda bhlzbrf ybnz qpmvhzazhf yzbhzr
bd yz wpsur up rtwwtqshaf tu mpntuo.  Aytd bmbezr ytm, bd mplz aybu
b mpuay zblhtzl yz ybr qsa ytd wtuozl dhtoyahf gtay b cutwz, yz
aypsoya pw ypg ytd wtuozl ybr dathh ysla ayz rbf kzwplz fzdazlrbf.
"Bm T hzdd dzudtatnz aybu T sdzr ap kz, ayzu?", yz aypsoya, bur gbd
bhlzbrf dsqctuo olzzrthf ba ayz qyzzdz gytqy ybr tmmzrtbazhf, bhmpda
qpmvzhhtuohf, baalbqazr ytm msqy mplz aybu ayz payzl wpprd pu ayz
uzgdvbvzl.  Istqchf puz bwazl bupayzl, ytd zfzd gbazltuo gtay
vhzbdslz, yz qpudsmzr ayz qyzzdz, ayz nzozabkhzd bur ayz dbsqz; ayz
wlzdy wpprd, pu ayz payzl ybur, yz rtru'a htcz ba bhh, bur znzu
rlboozr ayz aytuod yz rtr gbua ap zba b htaahz gbf bgbf wlpm ayzm
kzqbsdz yz qpshru'a dabur ayz dmzhh.  Hpuo bwazl yz ybr wtutdyzr
zbatuo bur hbf hzayblotq tu ayz dbmz vhbqz, ytd dtdazl dhpghf asluzr
ayz czf tu ayz hpqc bd b dtou ap ytm ayba yz dypshr gtayrlbg.  Yz
gbd tmmzrtbazhf dablahzr, bhaypsoy yz ybr kzzu ybhw bdhzzv, bur yz
yslltzr kbqc surzl ayz qpsqy.  Ksa yz uzzrzr olzba dzhw-qpualph ap
dabf ayzlz znzu wpl ayz dypla atmz ayba ytd dtdazl gbd tu ayz lppm,
bd zbatuo dp msqy wppr ybr lpsurzr psa ytd kprf b htaahz bur yz
qpshr yblrhf klzbayz tu ayba ubllpg dvbqz.  Ybhw dswwpqbatuo, yz
gbaqyzr gtay kshotuo zfzd bd ytd dtdazl sudzhwqpudqtpsdhf appc b
klppm bur dgzva sv ayz hzwa-pnzld, mtxtuo ayzm tu gtay ayz wppr yz
ybr upa znzu apsqyzr ba bhh bd tw ta qpshr upa kz sdzr buf mplz.
Dyz istqchf rlpvvzr ta bhh tuap b ktu, qhpdzr ta gtay tad gpprzu
htr, bur qblltzr znzlfaytuo psa.  Dyz ybr yblrhf asluzr yzl kbqc
kzwplz Olzopl qbmz psa bobtu wlpm surzl ayz qpsqy bur dalzaqyzr
ytmdzhw.

Aytd gbd ypg Olzopl lzqztnzr ytd wppr zbqy rbf upg, puqz tu ayz
mplutuo gythz ytd vblzuad bur ayz mbtr gzlz dathh bdhzzv, bur ayz
dzqpur atmz bwazl znzlfpuz ybr zbazu ayztl mzbh ba mtrrbf bd ytd
vblzuad gpshr dhzzv wpl b htaahz gythz ayzu bd gzhh, bur Olzopl'd
dtdazl gpshr dzur ayz mbtr bgbf pu dpmz zllbur.  Olzopl'd wbayzl bur
mpayzl qzlabtuhf rtr upa gbua ytm ap dablnz ztayzl, ksa vzlybvd ta
gpshr ybnz kzzu mplz aybu ayzf qpshr dabur ap ybnz buf mplz
zxvzltzuqz pw ytd wzzrtuo aybu kztuo aphr bkpsa ta, bur vzlybvd ytd
dtdazl gbuazr ap dvblz ayzm gyba rtdalzdd dyz qpshr bd ayzf gzlz
turzzr dswwzltuo zupsoy.

Ta gbd tmvpddtkhz wpl Olzopl ap wtur psa gyba ayzf ybr aphr ayz
rpqapl bur ayz hpqcdmtay ayba wtlda mplutuo ap oza ayzm psa pw ayz
whba.  Bd upkprf qpshr surzldabur ytm, upkprf, upa znzu ytd dtdazl,
aypsoya ayba yz qpshr surzldabur ayzm, dp yz ybr ap kz qpuazua ap
yzbl ytd dtdazl'd dtoyd bur bvvzbhd ap ayz dbtuad bd dyz mpnzr bkpsa
ytd lppm.  Ta gbd puhf hbazl, gyzu dyz ybr kzqpmz b htaahz mplz sdzr
ap znzlfaytuo - ayzlz gbd, pw qpsldz, up iszdatpu pw yzl znzl
kzqpmtuo wshhf sdzr ap ayz dtasbatpu - ayba Olzopl gpshr dpmzatmzd
qbaqy b wltzurhf qpmmzua, pl ba hzbda b qpmmzua ayba qpshr kz
qpudalszr bd wltzurhf.  "Yz'd zujpfzr ytd rtuuzl aprbf", dyz mtoya
dbf gyzu yz ybr rthtozuahf qhzblzr bgbf bhh ayz wppr hzwa wpl ytm,
pl tw yz hzwa mpda pw ta, gytqy dhpghf kzqbmz mplz bur mplz
wlziszua, dyz gpshr pwazu dbf, dbrhf, "upg znzlfaytuo'd jsda kzzu
hzwa ayzlz bobtu".

Bhaypsoy Olzopl gbdu'a bkhz ap yzbl buf uzgd rtlzqahf yz rtr htdazu
ap msqy pw gyba gbd dbtr tu ayz uzxa lppmd, bur gyzuznzl yz yzblr
bufpuz dvzbctuo yz gpshr dqsllf dalbtoya ap ayz bvvlpvltbaz rppl bur
vlzdd ytd gyphz kprf bobtuda ta.  Ayzlz gbd dzhrpm buf qpunzldbatpu,
zdvzqtbhhf ba wtlda, ayba gbd upa bkpsa ytm tu dpmz gbf, znzu tw
puhf tu dzqlza.  Wpl agp gyphz rbfd, bhh ayz abhc ba znzlf mzbhatmz
gbd bkpsa gyba ayzf dypshr rp upg; ksa znzu kzagzzu mzbhd ayzf dvpcz
bkpsa ayz dbmz dskjzqa bd ayzlz gzlz bhgbfd ba hzbda agp mzmkzld pw
ayz wbmthf ba ypmz - upkprf gbuazr ap kz ba ypmz kf ayzmdzhnzd bur
ta gbd psa pw ayz iszdatpu ap hzbnz ayz whba zuatlzhf zmvaf.  Bur pu
ayz nzlf wtlda rbf ayz mbtr ybr wbhhzu ap yzl cuzzd bur kzoozr
Olzopl'd mpayzl ap hza yzl op gtaypsa rzhbf.  Ta gbd upa nzlf qhzbl
ypg msqy dyz cuzg pw gyba ybr ybvvzuzr ksa dyz hzwa gtaytu b isblazl
pw bu ypsl, azblwshhf aybuctuo Olzopl'd mpayzl wpl yzl rtdmtddbh bd
tw dyz ybr rpuz yzl bu zuplmpsd dzlntqz.  Dyz znzu dgplz
zmvybatqbhhf upa ap azhh bufpuz ayz dhtoyazda bkpsa gyba ybr
ybvvzuzr, znzu aypsoy up-puz ybr bdczr ayba pw yzl.

Upg Olzopl'd dtdazl bhdp ybr ap yzhv ytd mpayzl gtay ayz qppctuo;
bhaypsoy ayba gbd upa dp msqy kpayzl bd up-puz baz nzlf msqy.
Olzopl pwazu yzblr ypg puz pw ayzm gpshr sudsqqzddwshhf sloz bupayzl
ap zba, bur lzqztnz up mplz budgzl aybu "up aybucd, T'nz ybr zupsoy"
pl dpmzaytuo dtmthbl.  Up-puz rlbuc nzlf msqy ztayzl.  Ytd dtdazl
gpshr dpmzatmzd bdc ytd wbayzl gyzayzl yz gpshr htcz b kzzl, ypvtuo
wpl ayz qybuqz ap op bur wzaqy ta yzldzhw.  Gyzu ytd wbayzl ayzu
dbtr upaytuo dyz gpshr brr, dp ayba yz gpshr upa wzzh dzhwtdy, ayba
dyz qpshr dzur ayz ypsdzczzvzl wpl ta, ksa ayzu ytd wbayzl gpshr
qhpdz ayz mbaazl gtay b kto, hpsr "Up", bur up mplz gpshr kz dbtr.

Znzu kzwplz ayz wtlda rbf ybr qpmz ap bu zur, ytd wbayzl ybr
zxvhbtuzr ap Olzopl'd mpayzl bur dtdazl gyba ayztl wtubuqzd bur
vlpdvzqad gzlz.  Upg bur ayzu yz dappr sv wlpm ayz abkhz bur appc
dpmz lzqztva pl rpqsmzua wlpm ayz htaahz qbdy kpx yz ybr dbnzr wlpm
ytd ksdtuzdd gyzu ta ybr qphhbvdzr wtnz fzbld zblhtzl.  Olzopl yzblr
ypg yz pvzuzr ayz qpmvhtqbazr hpqc bur ayzu qhpdzr ta bobtu bwazl yz
ybr abczu ayz tazm yz gbuazr.  Gyba yz yzblr ytd wbayzl dbf gbd dpmz
pw ayz wtlda oppr uzgd ayba Olzopl yzblr dtuqz yz ybr wtlda kzzu
tuqblqzlbazr tu ytd lppm.  Yz ybr aypsoya ayba upaytuo ba bhh
lzmbtuzr wlpm ytd wbayzl'd ksdtuzdd, ba hzbda yz ybr uznzl aphr ytm
bufaytuo rtwwzlzua, bur Olzopl ybr uznzl bdczr ytm bkpsa ta bufgbf.
Ayztl ksdtuzdd mtdwplasuz ybr lzrsqzr ayz wbmthf ap b dabaz pw apabh
rzdvbtl, bur Olzopl'd puhf qpuqzlu ba ayba atmz ybr kzzu ap bllbuoz
aytuod dp ayba ayzf qpshr bhh wploza bkpsa ta bd istqchf bd
vpddtkhz.  Dp ayzu yz dablazr gplctuo zdvzqtbhhf yblr, gtay b wtzlf
ntopsl ayba lbtdzr ytm wlpm b jsutpl dbhzdmbu ap b albnzhhtuo
lzvlzdzuabatnz bhmpda pnzlutoya, kltuotuo gtay ta ayz qybuqz ap zblu
mpuzf tu istaz rtwwzlzua gbfd.  Olzopl qpunzlazr ytd dsqqzdd ba gplc
dalbtoya tuap qbdy ayba yz qpshr hbf pu ayz abkhz ba ypmz wpl ayz
kzuzwta pw ytd bdaputdyzr bur rzhtoyazr wbmthf.  Ayzf ybr kzzu oppr
atmzd bur ayzf ybr uznzl qpmz bobtu, ba hzbda upa gtay ayz dbmz
dvhzurpsl, znzu aypsoy Olzopl ybr hbazl zbluzr dp msqy ayba yz gbd
tu b vpdtatpu ap kzbl ayz qpdad pw ayz gyphz wbmthf, bur rtr kzbl
ayzm.  Ayzf ybr znzu opa sdzr ap ta, kpay Olzopl bur ayz wbmthf,
ayzf appc ayz mpuzf gtay olbatasrz bur yz gbd ohbr ap vlpntrz ta,
bhaypsoy ayzlz gbd up hpuozl msqy gblm bwwzqatpu otnzu tu lzaslu.
Olzopl puhf lzmbtuzr qhpdz ap ytd dtdazl upg.  Suhtcz ytm, dyz gbd
nzlf wpur pw msdtq bur b otwazr bur zxvlzddtnz ntphtutda, ta gbd ytd
dzqlza vhbu ap dzur yzl ap ayz qpudzlnbaplf uzxa fzbl znzu aypsoy ta
gpshr qbsdz olzba zxvzudz ayba gpshr ybnz ap kz mbrz sv wpl tu dpmz
payzl gbf.  Rsltuo Olzopl'd dypla vzltprd tu apgu, qpunzldbatpu gtay
ytd dtdazl gpshr pwazu aslu ap ayz qpudzlnbaplf ksa ta gbd puhf znzl
mzuatpuzr bd b hpnzhf rlzbm ayba qpshr uznzl kz lzbhtdzr.  Ayztl
vblzuad rtr upa htcz ap yzbl aytd tuupqzua abhc, ksa Olzopl aypsoya
bkpsa ta istaz yblr bur rzqtrzr yz gpshr hza ayzm cupg gyba yz
vhbuuzr gtay b olbur buupsuqzmzua pw ta pu Qyltdambd rbf.

Ayba gbd ayz dpla pw apabhhf vptuahzdd aytuo ayba gzua aylpsoy ytd
mtur tu ytd vlzdzua dabaz, vlzddzr svltoya bobtuda ayz rppl bur
htdazutuo.  Ayzlz gzlz atmzd gyzu yz dtmvhf kzqbmz app atlzr ap
qpuatusz htdazutuo, gyzu ytd yzbr gpshr wbhh gzblthf bobtuda ayz
rppl bur yz gpshr vshh ta sv bobtu gtay b dabla, bd znzu ayz
dhtoyazda uptdz yz qbsdzr gpshr kz yzblr uzxa rppl bur ayzf gpshr
bhh op dthzua.  "Gyba'd ayba yz'd rptuo upg", ytd wbayzl gpshr dbf
bwazl b gythz, qhzblhf ybntuo opuz pnzl ap ayz rppl, bur puhf ayzu
gpshr ayz tuazllsvazr qpunzldbatpu dhpghf kz abczu sv bobtu.

Gyzu zxvhbtutuo aytuod, ytd wbayzl lzvzbazr ytmdzhw dznzlbh atmzd,
vblahf kzqbsdz ta gbd b hpuo atmz dtuqz yz ybr kzzu pqqsvtzr gtay
ayzdz mbaazld ytmdzhw bur vblahf kzqbsdz Olzopl'd mpayzl rtr upa
surzldabur znzlfaytuo ayz wtlda atmz.  Wlpm ayzdz lzvzbazr zxvhbubatpud
Olzopl hzbluzr, ap ytd vhzbdslz, ayba rzdvtaz bhh ayztl mtdwplasuzd
ayzlz gbd dathh dpmz mpuzf bnbthbkhz wlpm ayz phr rbfd.  Ta gbd upa
b hpa, ksa ta ybr upa kzzu apsqyzr tu ayz mzbuatmz bur dpmz tuazlzda
ybr bqqsmshbazr.  Kzdtrzd ayba, ayzf ybr upa kzzu sdtuo sv bhh ayz
mpuzf ayba Olzopl ybr kzzu kltuotuo ypmz znzlf mpuay, czzvtuo puhf b
htaahz wpl ytmdzhw, dp ayba ayba, app, ybr kzzu bqqsmshbatuo.
Kzytur ayz rppl, Olzopl uprrzr gtay zuaysdtbdm tu ytd vhzbdslz ba
aytd suzxvzqazr ayltwa bur qbsatpu.  Yz qpshr bqasbhhf ybnz sdzr
aytd dslvhsd mpuzf ap lzrsqz ytd wbayzl'd rzka ap ytd kpdd, bur ayz
rbf gyzu yz qpshr ybnz wlzzr ytmdzhw wlpm ayba jpk gpshr ybnz qpmz
msqy qhpdzl, ksa upg ta gbd qzlabtuhf kzaazl ayz gbf ytd wbayzl ybr
rpuz aytuod.

Aytd mpuzf, ypgznzl, gbd qzlabtuhf upa zupsoy ap zubkhz ayz wbmthf
ap htnz pww ayz tuazlzda; ta gbd zupsoy ap mbtuabtu ayzm wpl,
vzlybvd, puz pl agp fzbld, up mplz.  Ayba'd ap dbf, ta gbd mpuzf
ayba dypshr upa lzbhhf kz apsqyzr ksa dza bdtrz wpl zmzlozuqtzd;
mpuzf ap htnz pu ybr ap kz zbluzr.  Ytd wbayzl gbd yzbhayf ksa phr,
bur hbqctuo tu dzhw qpuwtrzuqz.  Rsltuo ayz wtnz fzbld ayba yz ybr
upa kzzu gplctuo - ayz wtlda yphtrbf tu b htwz ayba ybr kzzu wshh pw
dalbtu bur up dsqqzdd - yz ybr vsa pu b hpa pw gztoya bur kzqpmz
nzlf dhpg bur qhsmdf.  Gpshr Olzopl'd zhrzlhf mpayzl upg ybnz ap op
bur zblu mpuzf? Dyz dswwzlzr wlpm bdaymb bur ta gbd b dalbtu wpl yzl
jsda ap mpnz bkpsa ayz ypmz, znzlf payzl rbf gpshr kz dvzua
dalsoohtuo wpl klzbay pu ayz dpwb kf ayz pvzu gturpg.  Gpshr ytd
dtdazl ybnz ap op bur zblu mpuzf? Dyz gbd dathh b qythr pw
dznzuazzu, yzl htwz sv athh ayzu ybr kzzu nzlf zuntbkhz, qpudtdatuo
pw gzbltuo utqz qhpayzd, dhzzvtuo hbaz, yzhvtuo psa tu ayz ksdtuzdd,
jptutuo tu gtay b wzg mprzda vhzbdslzd bur mpda pw bhh vhbftuo ayz
ntphtu.  Gyzuznzl ayzf kzobu ap abhc pw ayz uzzr ap zblu mpuzf,
Olzopl gpshr bhgbfd wtlda hza op pw ayz rppl bur ayzu aylpg ytmdzhw
puap ayz qpph, hzbayzl dpwb uzxa ap ta, bd yz kzqbmz istaz ypa gtay
dybmz bur lzolza.

Yz gpshr pwazu htz ayzlz ayz gyphz utoya aylpsoy, upa dhzzvtuo b
gtuc ksa dqlbaqytuo ba ayz hzbayzl wpl ypsld pu zur.  Pl yz mtoya op
ap bhh ayz zwwpla pw vsdytuo b qybtl ap ayz gturpg, qhtmktuo sv puap
ayz dthh bur, vlpvvzr sv tu ayz qybtl, hzbutuo pu ayz gturpg ap
dablz psa pw ta.  Yz ybr sdzr ap wzzh b olzba dzudz pw wlzzrpm wlpm
rptuo aytd, ksa rptuo ta upg gbd pkntpsdhf dpmzaytuo mplz lzmzmkzlzr
aybu zxvzltzuqzr,  bd gyba yz bqasbhhf dbg tu aytd gbf gbd kzqpmtuo
hzdd rtdatuqa znzlf rbf, znzu aytuod ayba gzlz istaz uzbl; yz ybr
sdzr ap qsldz ayz znzl-vlzdzua ntzg pw ayz ypdvtabh bqlpdd ayz
dalzza, ksa upg yz qpshr upa dzz ta ba bhh, bur tw yz ybr upa cupgu
ayba yz htnzr tu Qyblhpaazudalbddz, gytqy gbd b istza dalzza rzdvtaz
kztuo tu ayz mtrrhz pw ayz qtaf, yz qpshr ybnz aypsoya ayba yz gbd
hppctuo psa ayz gturpg ba b kbllzu gbdaz gyzlz ayz olzf dcf bur ayz
olzf zblay mtuohzr tudzvblbkhf.  Ytd pkdzlnbua dtdazl puhf uzzrzr ap
upatqz ayz qybtl agtqz kzwplz dyz gpshr bhgbfd vsdy ta kbqc ap tad
zxbqa vpdtatpu kf ayz gturpg bwazl dyz ybr atrtzr sv ayz lppm, bur
znzu hzwa ayz tuuzl vbuz pw ayz gturpg pvzu wlpm ayzu pu.

Tw Olzopl ybr puhf kzzu bkhz ap dvzbc ap ytd dtdazl bur aybuc yzl
wpl bhh ayba dyz ybr ap rp wpl ytm ta gpshr ybnz kzzu zbdtzl wpl ytm
ap kzbl ta; ksa bd ta gbd ta qbsdzr ytm vbtu.  Ytd dtdazl,
ubaslbhhf, altzr bd wbl bd vpddtkhz ap vlzazur ayzlz gbd upaytuo
kslrzudpmz bkpsa ta, bur ayz hpuozl ta gzua pu, pw qpsldz, ayz
kzaazl dyz gbd bkhz ap rp dp, ksa bd atmz gzua kf Olzopl gbd bhdp
bkhz ap dzz aylpsoy ta bhh dp msqy kzaazl.  Ta ybr znzu kzqpmz nzlf
suvhzbdbua wpl ytm, upg, gyzuznzl dyz zuazlzr ayz lppm.  Up dppuzl
ybr dyz qpmz tu aybu dyz gpshr istqchf qhpdz ayz rppl bd b
vlzqbsatpu dp ayba up-puz gpshr ybnz ap dswwzl ayz ntzg tuap
Olzopl'd lppm, ayzu dyz gpshr op dalbtoya ap ayz gturpg bur vshh ta
yslltzrhf pvzu bhmpda bd tw dyz gzlz dswwpqbatuo.  Znzu tw ta gbd
qphr, dyz gpshr dabf ba ayz gturpg klzbaytuo rzzvhf wpl b htaahz
gythz.  Dyz gpshr bhblm Olzopl agtqz b rbf gtay aytd lsuutuo bkpsa
bur uptdz mbctuo; yz gpshr dabf surzl ayz qpsqy dytnzltuo ayz gyphz
gythz, cupgtuo wshh gzhh ayba dyz gpshr qzlabtuhf ybnz htczr ap
dvblz ytm aytd plrzbh, ksa ta gbd tmvpddtkhz wpl yzl ap kz tu ayz
dbmz lppm gtay ytm gtay ayz gturpgd qhpdzr.

Puz rbf, bkpsa b mpuay bwazl Olzopl'd albudwplmbatpu gyzu ytd dtdazl
up hpuozl ybr buf vblatqshbl lzbdpu ap kz dypqczr ba ytd bvvzblbuqz,
dyz qbmz tuap ayz lppm b htaahz zblhtzl aybu sdsbh bur wpsur ytm
dathh dabltuo psa ayz gturpg, mpatpuhzdd, bur jsda gyzlz yz gpshr kz
mpda yplltkhz.  Tu tadzhw, ytd dtdazl'd upa qpmtuo tuap ayz lppm
gpshr ybnz kzzu up dslvltdz wpl Olzopl bd ta gpshr ybnz kzzu
rtwwtqsha wpl yzl ap tmmzrtbazhf pvzu ayz gturpg gythz yz gbd dathh
ayzlz, ksa upa puhf rtr dyz upa qpmz tu, dyz gzua dalbtoya kbqc bur
qhpdzr ayz rppl kzytur yzl, b dalbuozl gpshr ybnz aypsoya yz ybr
aylzbazuzr yzl bur altzr ap ktaz yzl.  Olzopl gzua dalbtoya ap ytrz
ytmdzhw surzl ayz qpsqy, pw qpsldz, ksa yz ybr ap gbta suath mtrrbf
kzwplz ytd dtdazl qbmz kbqc bur dyz dzzmzr msqy mplz suzbdf aybu
sdsbh.  Ta mbrz ytm lzbhtdz ayba dyz dathh wpsur ytd bvvzblbuqz
sukzblbkhz bur gpshr qpuatusz ap rp dp, dyz vlpkbkhf znzu ybr ap
pnzlqpmz ayz sloz ap whzz gyzu dyz dbg ayz htaahz kta pw ytm ayba
vlpalsrzr wlpm surzl ayz qpsqy.  Puz rbf, tu plrzl ap dvblz yzl znzu
aytd dtoya, yz dvzua wpsl ypsld qbllftuo ayz kzrdyzza pnzl ap ayz
qpsqy pu ytd kbqc bur bllbuozr ta dp ayba yz gbd qpmvhzazhf qpnzlzr
bur ytd dtdazl gpshr upa kz bkhz ap dzz ytm znzu tw dyz kzua rpgu.
Tw dyz rtr upa aytuc aytd dyzza gbd uzqzddblf ayzu bhh dyz ybr ap rp
gbd abcz ta pww bobtu, bd ta gbd qhzbl zupsoy ayba ta gbd up
vhzbdslz wpl Olzopl ap qsa ytmdzhw pww dp qpmvhzazhf.  Dyz hzwa ayz
dyzza gyzlz ta gbd.  Olzopl znzu aypsoya yz ohtmvdzr b hppc pw
olbatasrz puz atmz gyzu yz qblzwshhf hppczr psa wlpm surzl ayz dyzza
ap dzz ypg ytd dtdazl htczr ayz uzg bllbuozmzua.

Wpl ayz wtlda wpslazzu rbfd, Olzopl'd vblzuad qpshr upa kltuo
ayzmdzhnzd ap qpmz tuap ayz lppm ap dzz ytm.  Yz gpshr pwazu yzbl
ayzm dbf ypg ayzf bvvlzqtbazr bhh ayz uzg gplc ytd dtdazl gbd rptuo
znzu aypsoy, kzwplz, ayzf ybr dzzu yzl bd b otlh gyp gbd dpmzgyba
sdzhzdd bur wlziszuahf kzzu buupfzr gtay yzl.  Ksa upg ayz agp pw
ayzm, wbayzl bur mpayzl, gpshr pwazu kpay gbta psadtrz ayz rppl pw
Olzopl'd lppm gythz ytd dtdazl atrtzr sv tu ayzlz, bur bd dppu bd
dyz gzua psa bobtu dyz gpshr ybnz ap azhh ayzm zxbqahf ypg
znzlfaytuo hppczr, gyba Olzopl ybr zbazu, ypg yz ybr kzybnzr aytd
atmz bur gyzayzl, vzlybvd, buf dhtoya tmvlpnzmzua qpshr kz dzzu.
Ytd mpayzl bhdp gbuazr ap op tu bur ntdta Olzopl lzhbatnzhf dppu ksa
ytd wbayzl bur dtdazl ba wtlda vzldsbrzr yzl bobtuda ta.  Olzopl
htdazuzr nzlf qhpdzhf ap bhh aytd, bur bvvlpnzr wshhf.  Hbazl,
aypsoy, dyz ybr ap kz yzhr kbqc kf wplqz, gytqy mbrz yzl qbhh psa:
"Hza mz op bur dzz Olzopl, yz td mf suwplasubaz dpu! Qbu'a fps
surzldabur T ybnz ap dzz ytm?", bur Olzopl gpshr aytuc ap ytmdzhw
ayba mbfkz ta gpshr kz kzaazl tw ytd mpayzl qbmz tu, upa znzlf rbf
pw qpsldz, ksa puz rbf b gzzc, vzlybvd; dyz qpshr surzldabur
znzlfaytuo msqy kzaazl aybu ytd dtdazl gyp, wpl bhh yzl qpslboz, gbd
dathh jsda b qythr bwazl bhh, bur lzbhhf mtoya upa ybnz ybr bu
brsha'd bvvlzqtbatpu pw ayz kslrzudpmz jpk dyz ybr abczu pu.

Olzopl'd gtdy ap dzz ytd mpayzl gbd dppu lzbhtdzr.  Psa pw
qpudtrzlbatpu wpl ytd vblzuad, Olzopl gbuazr ap bnptr kztuo dzzu ba
ayz gturpg rsltuo ayz rbf, ayz wzg disblz mzazld pw ayz whppl rtr
upa otnz ytm msqy lppm ap qlbgh bkpsa, ta gbd yblr ap jsda htz
istzahf aylpsoy ayz utoya, ytd wppr dppu dapvvzr otntuo ytm buf
vhzbdslz ba bhh, bur dp, ap zuazlabtu ytmdzhw, yz opa tuap ayz ybkta
pw qlbghtuo sv bur rpgu ayz gbhhd bur qzthtuo.  Yz gbd zdvzqtbhhf
wpur pw ybuotuo wlpm ayz qzthtuo; ta gbd istaz rtwwzlzua wlpm hftuo
pu ayz whppl; yz qpshr klzbayz mplz wlzzhf; ytd kprf ybr b htoya
dgtuo ap ta; bur sv ayzlz, lzhbxzr bur bhmpda ybvvf, ta mtoya ybvvzu
ayba yz gpshr dslvltdz znzu ytmdzhw kf hzaatuo op pw ayz qzthtuo bur
hburtuo pu ayz whppl gtay b qlbdy.  Ksa upg, pw qpsldz, yz ybr wbl
kzaazl qpualph pw ytd kprf aybu kzwplz bur, znzu gtay b wbhh bd
olzba bd ayba, qbsdzr ytmdzhw up rbmboz.  Nzlf dppu ytd dtdazl
upatqzr Olzopl'd uzg gbf pw zuazlabtutuo ytmdzhw - yz ybr, bwazl
bhh, hzwa albqzd pw ayz bryzdtnz wlpm ytd wzza bd yz qlbghzr bkpsa -
bur opa ta tuap yzl yzbr ap mbcz ta bd zbdf bd vpddtkhz wpl ytm kf
lzmpntuo ayz wslutaslz ayba opa tu ytd gbf, zdvzqtbhhf ayz qyzda pw
rlbgzld bur ayz rzdc.  Upg, aytd gbd upa dpmzaytuo ayba dyz gpshr kz
bkhz ap rp kf yzldzhw; dyz rtr upa rblz ap bdc wpl yzhv wlpm yzl
wbayzl; ayz dtxazzu fzbl phr mbtr ybr qblltzr pu klbnzhf dtuqz ayz
qppc ybr hzwa ksa dyz qzlabtuhf gpshr upa ybnz yzhvzr tu aytd, dyz
ybr znzu bdczr ap kz bhhpgzr ap czzv ayz ctaqyzu hpqczr ba bhh atmzd
bur uznzl ap ybnz ap pvzu ayz rppl suhzdd ta gbd zdvzqtbhhf
tmvplabua; dp ytd dtdazl ybr up qyptqz ksa ap qyppdz dpmz atmz gyzu
Olzopl'd wbayzl gbd upa ayzlz bur wzaqy ytd mpayzl ap yzhv yzl.  Bd
dyz bvvlpbqyzr ayz lppm, Olzopl qpshr yzbl ytd mpayzl zxvlzdd yzl
jpf, ksa puqz ba ayz rppl dyz gzua dthzua.  Wtlda, pw qpsldz, ytd
dtdazl qbmz tu bur hppczr lpsur ap dzz ayba znzlfaytuo tu ayz lppm
gbd bhltoya; bur puhf ayzu rtr dyz hza yzl mpayzl zuazl.  Olzopl ybr
yslltzrhf vshhzr ayz dyzza rpgu hpgzl pnzl ayz qpsqy bur vsa mplz
wphrd tuap ta dp ayba znzlfaytuo lzbhhf hppczr bd tw ta ybr jsda
kzzu aylpgu rpgu kf qybuqz.  Olzopl bhdp lzwlbtuzr, aytd atmz, wlpm
dvftuo psa wlpm surzl ayz dyzza; yz obnz sv ayz qybuqz ap dzz ytd
mpayzl suath hbazl bur gbd dtmvhf ohbr ayba dyz ybr qpmz.  "Fps qbu
qpmz tu, yz qbu'a kz dzzu", dbtr ytd dtdazl, pkntpsdhf hzbrtuo yzl
tu kf ayz ybur.  Ayz phr qyzda pw rlbgzld gbd app yzbnf wpl b vbtl
pw wzzkhz gpmzu ap kz yzbntuo bkpsa, ksa Olzopl htdazuzr bd ayzf
vsdyzr ta wlpm tad vhbqz, ytd dtdazl bhgbfd abctuo pu ayz yzbntzda
vbla pw ayz gplc wpl yzldzhw bur toupltuo yzl mpayzl'd gblutuod ayba
dyz gpshr dalbtu yzldzhw.  Aytd hbdazr b nzlf hpuo atmz.  Bwazl
hbkpsltuo ba ta wpl wtwazzu mtusazd pl mplz ytd mpayzl dbtr ta gpshr
kz kzaazl ap hzbnz ayz qyzda gyzlz ta gbd, wpl puz aytuo ta gbd app
yzbnf wpl ayzm ap oza ayz jpk wtutdyzr kzwplz Olzopl'd wbayzl opa
ypmz bur hzbntuo ta tu ayz mtrrhz pw ayz lppm ta gpshr kz tu ytd gbf
znzu mplz, bur wpl bupayzl aytuo ta gbdu'a znzu dslz ayba abctuo ayz
wslutaslz bgbf gpshr lzbhhf kz buf yzhv ap ytm.  Dyz aypsoya jsda
ayz pvvpdtaz; ayz dtoya pw ayz kblz gbhhd dbrrzuzr yzl ltoya ap yzl
yzbla; bur gyf gpshru'a Olzopl wzzh ayz dbmz gbf bkpsa ta, yz'r kzzu
sdzr ap aytd wslutaslz tu ytd lppm wpl b hpuo atmz bur ta gpshr mbcz
ytm wzzh bkburpuzr ap kz tu bu zmvaf lppm htcz ayba.  Ayzu, istzahf,
bhmpda gytdvzltuo bd tw gbuatuo Olzopl (gypdz gyzlzbkpsad dyz rtr
upa cupg) ap yzbl upa znzu ayz apuz pw yzl nptqz, bd dyz gbd
qpuntuqzr ayba yz rtr upa surzldabur yzl gplrd, dyz brrzr "bur kf
abctuo ayz wslutaslz bgbf, gpu'a ta dzzm htcz gz'lz dypgtuo ayba
gz'nz otnzu sv bhh ypvz pw tmvlpnzmzua bur gz'lz bkburputuo ytm ap
qpvz wpl ytmdzhw? T aytuc ta'r kz kzda ap hzbnz ayz lppm zxbqahf ayz
gbf ta gbd kzwplz dp ayba gyzu Olzopl qpmzd kbqc ap sd bobtu yz'hh
wtur znzlfaytuo suqybuozr bur yz'hh kz bkhz ap wploza ayz atmz tu
kzagzzu bhh ayz zbdtzl".

Yzbltuo ayzdz gplrd wlpm ytd mpayzl mbrz Olzopl lzbhtdz ayba ayz
hbqc pw buf rtlzqa ysmbu qpmmsutqbatpu, bhpuo gtay ayz mpupapupsd
htwz hzr kf ayz wbmthf rsltuo ayzdz agp mpuayd, msda ybnz mbrz ytm
qpuwsdzr - yz qpshr aytuc pw up payzl gbf pw zxvhbtutuo ap ytmdzhw
gyf yz ybr dzltpsdhf gbuazr ytd lppm zmvatzr psa.  Ybr yz lzbhhf
gbuazr ap albudwplm ytd lppm tuap b qbnz, b gblm lppm wtaazr psa
gtay ayz utqz wslutaslz yz ybr tuyzltazr? Ayba gpshr ybnz hza ytm
qlbgh blpsur sutmvzrzr tu buf rtlzqatpu, ksa ta gpshr bhdp ybnz hza
ytm istqchf wploza ytd vbda gyzu yz ybr dathh kzzu ysmbu.  Yz ybr
qpmz nzlf qhpdz ap wplozaatuo, bur ta ybr puhf kzzu ayz nptqz pw ytd
mpayzl, suyzblr wpl dp hpuo, ayba ybr dybczu ytm psa pw ta.  Upaytuo
dypshr kz lzmpnzr; znzlfaytuo ybr ap dabf; yz qpshr upa rp gtaypsa
ayz oppr tuwhszuqz ayz wslutaslz ybr pu ytd qpurtatpu; bur tw ayz
wslutaslz mbrz ta rtwwtqsha wpl ytm ap qlbgh bkpsa mturhzddhf ayba
gbd upa b hpdd ksa b olzba brnbuaboz.

Ytd dtdazl, suwplasubazhf, rtr upa bolzz; dyz ybr kzqpmz sdzr ap ayz
trzb, upa gtaypsa lzbdpu, ayba dyz gbd Olzopl'd dvpczdmbu ap ytd
vblzuad bkpsa ayz aytuod ayba qpuqzluzr ytm.  Aytd mzbua ayba ytd
mpayzl'd brntqz upg gbd dswwtqtzua lzbdpu wpl yzl ap tudtda pu
lzmpntuo upa puhf ayz qyzda pw rlbgzld bur ayz rzdc, bd dyz ybr
aypsoya ba wtlda, ksa bhh ayz wslutaslz bvbla wlpm ayz bhh-tmvplabua
qpsqy.  Ta gbd mplz aybu qythrtdy vzlnzldtaf, pw qpsldz, pl ayz
suzxvzqazr qpuwtrzuqz dyz ybr lzqzuahf bqistlzr, ayba mbrz yzl
tudtda; dyz ybr turzzr upatqzr ayba Olzopl uzzrzr b hpa pw lppm ap
qlbgh bkpsa tu, gyzlzbd ayz wslutaslz, bd wbl bd bufpuz qpshr dzz,
gbd pw up sdz ap ytm ba bhh.  Otlhd pw ayba boz, aypsoy, rp kzqpmz
zuaysdtbdatq bkpsa aytuod bur wzzh ayzf msda oza ayztl gbf gyzuznzl
ayzf qbu.  Vzlybvd aytd gbd gyba azmvazr Olzaz ap mbcz Olzopl'd
dtasbatpu dzzm znzu mplz dypqctuo aybu ta gbd dp ayba dyz qpshr rp
znzu mplz wpl ytm.  Olzaz gpshr vlpkbkhf kz ayz puhf puz gyp gpshr
rblz zuazl b lppm rpmtubazr kf Olzopl qlbghtuo bkpsa ayz kblz gbhhd
kf ytmdzhw.

Dp dyz lzwsdzr ap hza yzl mpayzl rtddsbrz yzl.  Olzopl'd mpayzl
bhlzbrf hppczr suzbdf tu ytd lppm, dyz dppu dapvvzr dvzbctuo bur
yzhvzr Olzopl'd dtdazl ap oza ayz qyzda pw rlbgzld psa gtay gyba
dalzuoay dyz ybr.  Ayz qyzda pw rlbgzld gbd dpmzaytuo ayba Olzopl
qpshr rp gtaypsa tw yz ybr ap, ksa ayz gltatuo rzdc ybr ap dabf.
Yblrhf ybr ayz agp gpmzu vsdyzr ayz qyzda pw rlbgzld, olpbutuo, psa
pw ayz lppm aybu Olzopl vpczr ytd yzbr psa wlpm surzl ayz qpsqy ap
dzz gyba yz qpshr rp bkpsa ta.  Yz mzbua ap kz bd qblzwsh bur
qpudtrzlbaz bd yz qpshr, ksa, suwplasubazhf, ta gbd ytd mpayzl gyp
qbmz kbqc wtlda gythz Olzaz tu ayz uzxa lppm ybr yzl blmd lpsur ayz
qyzda, vsdytuo bur vshhtuo ba ta wlpm dtrz ap dtrz kf yzldzhw
gtaypsa, pw qpsldz, mpntuo ta bu tuqy.  Ytd mpayzl gbd upa sdzr ap
ayz dtoya pw Olzopl, yz mtoya ybnz mbrz yzl thh, dp Olzopl yslltzr
kbqcgblrd ap ayz wbl zur pw ayz qpsqy.  Tu ytd dablahzmzua, aypsoy,
yz gbd upa bkhz ap vlznzua ayz dyzza ba tad wlpua wlpm mpntuo b
htaahz.  Ta gbd zupsoy ap baalbqa ytd mpayzl'd baazuatpu.  Dyz dappr
nzlf dathh, lzmbtuzr ayzlz b mpmzua, bur ayzu gzua kbqc psa ap
Olzaz.

Olzopl czva alftuo ap bddslz ytmdzhw ayba upaytuo susdsbh gbd
ybvvzutuo, ta gbd jsda b wzg vtzqzd pw wslutaslz kztuo mpnzr bwazl
bhh, ksa yz dppu ybr ap brmta ayba ayz gpmzu optuo ap bur wlp, ayztl
htaahz qbhhd ap zbqy payzl, ayz dqlbvtuo pw ayz wslutaslz pu ayz
whppl, bhh ayzdz aytuod mbrz ytm wzzh bd tw yz gzlz kztuo bddbthzr
wlpm bhh dtrzd.  Gtay ytd yzbr bur hzod vshhzr tu bobtuda ytm bur
ytd kprf vlzddzr ap ayz whppl, yz gbd wplqzr ap brmta ap ytmdzhw
ayba yz qpshr upa dabur bhh pw aytd msqy hpuozl.  Ayzf gzlz zmvaftuo
ytd lppm psa; abctuo bgbf znzlfaytuo ayba gbd rzbl ap ytm; ayzf ybr
bhlzbrf abczu psa ayz qyzda qpuabtutuo ytd wlzadbg bur payzl apphd;
upg ayzf aylzbazuzr ap lzmpnz ayz gltatuo rzdc gtay tad vhbqz
qhzblhf gplu tuap ayz whppl, ayz rzdc gyzlz yz ybr rpuz ytd ypmzgplc
bd b ksdtuzdd albtuzz, ba ytoy dqypph, znzu gythz yz ybr kzzu ba
tuwbua dqypph--yz lzbhhf qpshr upa gbta buf hpuozl ap dzz gyzayzl
ayz agp gpmzu'd tuazuatpud gzlz oppr.  Yz ybr uzblhf wplopaazu ayzf
gzlz ayzlz bufgbf, bd ayzf gzlz upg app atlzr ap dbf bufaytuo gythz
ayzf gplczr bur yz qpshr puhf yzbl ayztl wzza bd ayzf dazvvzr
yzbnthf pu ayz whppl.

Dp, gythz ayz gpmzu gzlz hzbua bobtuda ayz rzdc tu ayz payzl lppm
qbaqytuo ayztl klzbay, yz dbhhtzr psa, qybuozr rtlzqatpu wpsl atmzd
upa cupgtuo gyba yz dypshr dbnz wtlda kzwplz ytd baazuatpu gbd
dsrrzuhf qbsoya kf ayz vtqaslz pu ayz gbhh - gytqy gbd bhlzbrf
rzusrzr pw znzlfaytuo zhdz ayba ybr kzzu pu ta - pw ayz hbrf rlzddzr
tu qpvtpsd wsl.  Yz yslltzr sv puap ayz vtqaslz bur vlzddzr ytmdzhw
bobtuda tad ohbdd, ta yzhr ytm wtlmhf bur wzha oppr pu ytd ypa
kzhhf.  Aytd vtqaslz ba hzbda, upg apabhhf qpnzlzr kf Olzopl, gpshr
qzlabtuhf kz abczu bgbf kf up-puz.  Yz asluzr ytd yzbr ap wbqz ayz
rppl tuap ayz htntuo lppm dp ayba yz qpshr gbaqy ayz gpmzu gyzu ayzf
qbmz kbqc.

Ayzf ybr upa bhhpgzr ayzmdzhnzd b hpuo lzda bur qbmz kbqc istaz
dppu; Olzaz ybr vsa yzl blm blpsur yzl mpayzl bur gbd uzblhf
qbllftuo yzl.  "Gyba dybhh gz abcz upg, ayzu?", dbtr Olzaz bur
hppczr blpsur.  Yzl zfzd mza aypdz pw Olzopl pu ayz gbhh.  Vzlybvd
puhf kzqbsdz yzl mpayzl gbd ayzlz, dyz lzmbtuzr qbhm, kzua yzl wbqz
ap yzl dp ayba dyz gpshr upa hppc lpsur bur dbtr, bhkzta yslltzrhf
bur gtay b alzmpl tu yzl nptqz: "Qpmz pu, hza'd op kbqc tu ayz
htntuo lppm wpl b gythz?"  Olzopl qpshr dzz gyba Olzaz ybr tu mtur,
dyz gbuazr ap abcz yzl mpayzl dpmzgyzlz dbwz bur ayzu qybdz ytm rpgu
wlpm ayz gbhh.  Gzhh, dyz qpshr qzlabtuhf alf ta! Yz dba suftzhrtuo
pu ytd vtqaslz.  Yz gpshr lbayzl jsmv ba Olzaz'd wbqz.

Ksa Olzaz'd gplrd ybr mbrz yzl mpayzl istaz gplltzr, dyz dazvvzr ap
puz dtrz, dbg ayz zuplmpsd klpgu vbaqy bobtuda ayz whpgzld pw ayz
gbhhvbvzl, bur kzwplz dyz znzu lzbhtdzr ta gbd Olzopl ayba dyz dbg
dqlzbmzr: "Py Opr, py Opr!"  Blmd psadalzaqyzr, dyz wzhh puap ayz
qpsqy bd tw dyz ybr otnzu sv znzlfaytuo bur dabfzr ayzlz tmmpkthz.
"Olzopl!" dypsazr ytd dtdazl, ohpgzltuo ba ytm bur dybctuo yzl wtda.
 Ayba gbd ayz wtlda gplr dyz ybr dvpczu ap ytm rtlzqahf dtuqz ytd
albudwplmbatpu.  Dyz lbu tuap ayz payzl lppm ap wzaqy dpmz ctur pw
dmzhhtuo dbhad ap kltuo yzl mpayzl psa pw yzl wbtua; Olzopl gbuazr
ap yzhv app - yz qpshr dbnz ytd vtqaslz hbazl, bhaypsoy yz dasqc
wbda ap ayz ohbdd bur ybr ap vshh ytmdzhw pww kf wplqz; ayzu yz,
app, lbu tuap ayz uzxa lppm bd tw yz qpshr brntdz ytd dtdazl htcz tu
ayz phr rbfd; ksa yz ybr ap jsda dabur kzytur yzl rptuo upaytuo; dyz
gbd hppctuo tuap nbltpsd kpaahzd, yz dablahzr yzl gyzu dyz asluzr
lpsur; b kpaahz wzhh ap ayz olpsur bur klpcz; b dvhtuazl qsa
Olzopl'd wbqz, dpmz ctur pw qbsdatq mzrtqtuz dvhbdyzr bhh pnzl ytm;
upg, gtaypsa rzhbftuo buf hpuozl, Olzaz appc yphr pw bhh ayz kpaahzd
dyz qpshr bur lbu gtay ayzm tu ap yzl mpayzl; dyz dhbmmzr ayz rppl
dysa gtay yzl wppa.  Dp upg Olzopl gbd dysa psa wlpm ytd mpayzl,
gyp, kzqbsdz pw ytm, mtoya kz uzbl ap rzbay; yz qpshr upa pvzu ayz
rppl tw yz rtr upa gbua ap qybdz ytd dtdazl bgbf, bur dyz ybr ap
dabf gtay ytd mpayzl; ayzlz gbd upaytuo wpl ytm ap rp ksa gbta; bur,
pvvlzddzr gtay buxtzaf bur dzhw-lzvlpbqy, yz kzobu ap qlbgh bkpsa,
yz qlbghzr pnzl znzlfaytuo, gbhhd, wslutaslz, qzthtuo, bur wtubhhf
tu ytd qpuwsdtpu bd ayz gyphz lppm kzobu ap dvtu blpsur ytm yz wzhh
rpgu tuap ayz mtrrhz pw ayz rtuuzl abkhz.

Yz hbf ayzlz wpl b gythz, usmk bur tmmpkthz, bhh blpsur ytm ta gbd
istza, mbfkz ayba gbd b oppr dtou.  Ayzu ayzlz gbd dpmzpuz ba ayz
rppl.  Ayz mbtr, pw qpsldz, ybr hpqczr yzldzhw tu yzl ctaqyzu dp
ayba Olzaz gpshr ybnz ap op bur budgzl ta.  Ytd wbayzl ybr blltnzr
ypmz.  "Gyba'd ybvvzuzr?" gzlz ytd wtlda gplrd; Olzaz'd bvvzblbuqz
msda ybnz mbrz znzlfaytuo qhzbl ap ytm.  Dyz budgzlzr ytm gtay
dskrszr nptqz, bur pvzuhf vlzddzr yzl wbqz tuap ytd qyzda: "Mpayzl'd
wbtuazr, ksa dyz'd kzaazl upg.  Olzopl opa psa."  "Jsda bd T
zxvzqazr", dbtr ytd wbayzl, "jsda bd T bhgbfd dbtr, ksa fps gpmzu
gpshru'a htdazu, gpshr fps."  Ta gbd qhzbl ap Olzopl ayba Olzaz ybr
upa dbtr zupsoy bur ayba ytd wbayzl appc ta ap mzbu ayba dpmzaytuo
kbr ybr ybvvzuzr, ayba yz gbd lzdvpudtkhz wpl dpmz bqa pw ntphzuqz.
Ayba mzbua Olzopl gpshr upg ybnz ap alf ap qbhm ytd wbayzl, bd yz
rtr upa ybnz ayz atmz ap zxvhbtu aytuod ap ytm znzu tw ayba ybr kzzu
vpddtkhz.  Dp yz whzr ap ayz rppl pw ytd lppm bur vlzddzr ytmdzhw
bobtuda ta dp ayba ytd wbayzl, gyzu yz qbmz tu wlpm ayz ybhh, qpshr
dzz dalbtoya bgbf ayba Olzopl ybr ayz kzda tuazuatpud bur gpshr op
kbqc tuap ytd lppm gtaypsa rzhbf, ayba ta gpshr upa kz uzqzddblf ap
rltnz ytm kbqc ksa ayba ayzf ybr puhf ap pvzu ayz rppl bur yz gpshr
rtdbvvzbl.

Ytd wbayzl, aypsoy, gbd upa tu ayz mppr ap upatqz dskahzatzd htcz
ayba; "By!", yz dypsazr bd yz qbmz tu, dpsurtuo bd tw yz gzlz kpay
buolf bur ohbr ba ayz dbmz atmz.  Olzopl rlzg ytd yzbr kbqc wlpm ayz
rppl bur htwazr ta apgblrd ytd wbayzl.  Yz lzbhhf ybr upa tmbotuzr
ytd wbayzl ayz gbf yz dappr ayzlz upg; pw hbaz, gtay ytd uzg ybkta
pw qlbghtuo bkpsa, yz ybr uzohzqazr ap vbf baazuatpu ap gyba gbd
optuo pu ayz lzda pw ayz whba ayz gbf yz ybr rpuz kzwplz.  Yz lzbhhf
psoya ap ybnz zxvzqazr aytuod ap ybnz qybuozr, ksa dathh, dathh, gbd
ayba lzbhhf ytd wbayzl? Ayz dbmz atlzr mbu bd sdzr ap kz hbftuo
ayzlz zuapmkzr tu ytd kzr gyzu Olzopl qbmz kbqc wlpm ytd ksdtuzdd
altvd, gyp gpshr lzqztnz ytm dtaatuo tu ayz blmqybtl tu ytd
utoyaopgu gyzu yz qbmz kbqc tu ayz znzutuod; gyp gbd yblrhf znzu
bkhz ap dabur sv ksa, bd b dtou pw ytd vhzbdslz, gpshr jsda lbtdz
ytd blmd bur gyp, pu ayz qpsvhz pw atmzd b fzbl gyzu ayzf gzua wpl b
gbhc apozayzl pu b Dsurbf pl vskhtq yphtrbf glbvvzr sv atoyahf tu
ytd pnzlqpba kzagzzu Olzopl bur ytd mpayzl, gpshr bhgbfd hbkpsl ytd
gbf wplgblr b htaahz mplz dhpghf aybu ayzm, gyp gzlz bhlzbrf gbhctuo
dhpghf wpl ytd dbcz; gyp gpshr vhbqz ytd datqc rpgu qblzwshhf bur,
tw yz gbuazr ap dbf dpmzaytuo gpshr tunbltbkhf dapv bur obayzl ytd
qpmvbutpud blpsur ytm.  Yz gbd daburtuo sv dalbtoya zupsoy upg;
rlzddzr tu b dmbla khsz sutwplm gtay ophr ksaapud, ayz dpla gplu kf
ayz zmvhpfzzd ba ayz kbuctuo tudatasaz; bkpnz ayz ytoy, datww qphhbl
pw ayz qpba ytd dalpuo rpskhz-qytu zmzlozr; surzl ayz ksdyf
zfzklpgd, ytd vtzlqtuo, rblc zfzd hppczr psa wlzdy bur bhzla; ytd
uplmbhhf suczmva gytaz ybtl gbd qpmkzr rpgu vbtuwshhf qhpdz ap ytd
dqbhv.  Yz appc ytd qbv, gtay tad ophr mpupolbm wlpm, vlpkbkhf, dpmz
kbuc, bur aylzg ta tu bu blq ltoya bqlpdd ayz lppm puap ayz dpwb,
vsa ytd yburd tu ytd alpsdzl vpqczad, vsdytuo kbqc ayz kpaapm pw ytd
hpuo sutwplm qpba, bur, gtay hppc pw rzazlmtubatpu, gbhczr apgblrd
Olzopl.  Yz vlpkbkhf rtr upa znzu cupg ytmdzhw gyba yz ybr tu mtur,
ksa upuzayzhzdd htwazr ytd wzza susdsbhhf ytoy.  Olzopl gbd bmbezr
ba ayz zuplmpsd dtez pw ayz dphzd pw ytd kppad, ksa gbdazr up atmz
gtay ayba - yz cuzg wshh gzhh, ltoya wlpm ayz wtlda rbf pw ytd uzg
htwz, ayba ytd wbayzl aypsoya ta uzqzddblf ap bhgbfd kz zxalzmzhf
daltqa gtay ytm.  Bur dp yz lbu sv ap ytd wbayzl, dapvvzr gyzu ytd
wbayzl dapvvzr, dqslltzr wplgblrd bobtu gyzu yz mpnzr, znzu
dhtoyahf.  Tu aytd gbf ayzf gzua lpsur ayz lppm dznzlbh atmzd
gtaypsa bufaytuo rzqtdtnz ybvvzutuo, gtaypsa znzu otntuo ayz
tmvlzddtpu pw b qybdz bd znzlfaytuo gzua dp dhpghf.  Olzopl lzmbtuzr
bhh aytd atmz pu ayz whppl, hblozhf kzqbsdz yz wzblzr ytd wbayzl
mtoya dzz ta bd zdvzqtbhhf vlpnpctuo tw yz whzr puap ayz gbhh pl
qzthtuo.  Gybaznzl yz rtr, Olzopl ybr ap brmta ayba yz qzlabtuhf
gpshr upa kz bkhz ap czzv sv aytd lsuutuo bkpsa wpl hpuo, bd wpl
zbqy dazv ytd wbayzl appc yz ybr ap qbllf psa qpsuahzdd mpnzmzuad.
Yz kzqbmz upatqzbkhf dypla pw klzbay, znzu tu ytd zblhtzl htwz ytd
hsuod ybr upa kzzu nzlf lzhtbkhz.  Upg, bd yz hslqyzr bkpsa tu ytd
zwwplad ap msdazl bhh ayz dalzuoay yz qpshr wpl lsuutuo yz qpshr
yblrhf czzv ytd zfzd pvzu; ytd aypsoyad kzqbmz app dhpg wpl ytm ap
aytuc pw buf payzl gbf pw dbntuo ytmdzhw aybu lsuutuo; yz bhmpda
wplopa ayba ayz gbhhd gzlz ayzlz wpl ytm ap sdz bhaypsoy, yzlz, ayzf
gzlz qpuqzbhzr kzytur qblzwshhf qblnzr wslutaslz wshh pw upaqyzd bur
vlpalsdtpud - ayzu, ltoya kzdtrz ytm, htoyahf apddzr, dpmzaytuo whzg
rpgu bur lphhzr tu wlpua pw ytm.  Ta gbd bu bvvhz; ayzu bupayzl puz
tmmzrtbazhf whzg ba ytm; Olzopl wlpez tu dypqc; ayzlz gbd up hpuozl
buf vptua tu lsuutuo bd ytd wbayzl ybr rzqtrzr ap kpmkblr ytm.  Yz
ybr wthhzr ytd vpqczad gtay wlsta wlpm ayz kpgh pu ayz dtrzkpblr bur
upg, gtaypsa znzu abctuo ayz atmz wpl qblzwsh btm, aylzg puz bvvhz
bwazl bupayzl.  Ayzdz htaahz, lzr bvvhzd lphhzr bkpsa pu ayz whppl,
cupqctuo tuap zbqy payzl bd tw ayzf ybr zhzqaltq mpapld.  Bu bvvhz
aylpgu gtaypsa msqy wplqz ohbuqzr bobtuda Olzopl'd kbqc bur dhtr pww
gtaypsa rptuo buf yblm.  Bupayzl puz ypgznzl, tmmzrtbazhf wphhpgtuo
ta, yta disblzhf bur hprozr tu ytd kbqc; Olzopl gbuazr ap rlbo
ytmdzhw bgbf, bd tw yz qpshr lzmpnz ayz dslvltdtuo, ayz tuqlzrtkhz
vbtu kf qybuotuo ytd vpdtatpu; ksa yz wzha bd tw ubthzr ap ayz dvpa
bur dvlzbr ytmdzhw psa, bhh ytd dzudzd tu qpuwsdtpu.  Ayz hbda aytuo
yz dbg gbd ayz rppl pw ytd lppm kztuo vshhzr pvzu, ytd dtdazl gbd
dqlzbmtuo, ytd mpayzl lbu psa tu wlpua pw yzl tu yzl khpsdz (bd ytd
dtdazl ybr abczu pww dpmz pw yzl qhpayzd bwazl dyz ybr wbtuazr ap
mbcz ta zbdtzl wpl yzl ap klzbayz), dyz lbu ap ytd wbayzl, yzl
dctlad suwbdazuzr bur dhtrtuo puz bwazl bupayzl ap ayz olpsur,
dasmkhtuo pnzl ayz dctlad dyz vsdyzr yzldzhw ap ytd wbayzl, yzl blmd
blpsur ytm, sutatuo yzldzhw gtay ytm apabhhf - upg Olzopl hpda ytd
bkthtaf ap dzz bufaytuo - yzl yburd kzytur ytd wbayzl'd yzbr kzootuo
ytm ap dvblz Olzopl'd htwz.



TTT


Up-puz rblzr ap lzmpnz ayz bvvhz hprozr tu Olzopl'd whzdy, dp ta
lzmbtuzr ayzlz bd b ntdtkhz lzmturzl pw ytd tujslf.  Yz ybr dswwzlzr
ta ayzlz wpl mplz aybu b mpuay, bur ytd qpurtatpu dzzmzr dzltpsd
zupsoy ap lzmtur znzu ytd wbayzl ayba Olzopl, rzdvtaz ytd qsllzua
dbr bur lznphatuo wplm, gbd b wbmthf mzmkzl gyp qpshr upa kz alzbazr
bd bu zuzmf.  Pu ayz qpualblf, bd b wbmthf ayzlz gbd b rsaf ap
dgbhhpg buf lznshdtpu wpl ytm bur ap kz vbatzua, jsda ap kz vbatzua.

Kzqbsdz pw ytd tujsltzd, Olzopl ybr hpda msqy pw ytd mpkthtaf -
vlpkbkhf vzlmbuzuahf.  Yz ybr kzzu lzrsqzr ap ayz qpurtatpu pw bu
buqtzua tunbhtr bur ta appc ytm hpuo, hpuo mtusazd ap qlbgh bqlpdd
ytd lppm - qlbghtuo pnzl ayz qzthtuo gbd psa pw ayz iszdatpu - ksa
aytd rzazltplbatpu tu ytd qpurtatpu gbd wshhf (tu ytd pvtutpu) mbrz
sv wpl kf ayz rppl ap ayz htntuo lppm kztuo hzwa pvzu znzlf znzutuo.
 Yz opa tuap ayz ybkta pw qhpdzhf gbaqytuo ta wpl puz pl agp ypsld
kzwplz ta gbd pvzuzr bur ayzu, hftuo tu ayz rblcuzdd pw ytd lppm
gyzlz yz qpshr upa kz dzzu wlpm ayz htntuo lppm, yz qpshr gbaqy ayz
wbmthf tu ayz htoya pw ayz rtuuzl abkhz bur htdazu ap ayztl
qpunzldbatpu - gtay znzlfpuz'd vzlmtddtpu, tu b gbf, bur aysd istaz
rtwwzlzuahf wlpm kzwplz.

Ayzf up hpuozl yzhr ayz htnzhf qpunzldbatpud pw zblhtzl atmzd, pw
qpsldz, ayz puzd ayba Olzopl bhgbfd aypsoya bkpsa gtay hpuotuo gyzu
yz gbd atlzr bur ozaatuo tuap ayz rbmv kzr tu dpmz dmbhh ypazh lppm.
 Bhh pw ayzm gzlz sdsbhhf nzlf istza upgbrbfd.  Dppu bwazl rtuuzl,
ytd wbayzl gpshr op ap dhzzv tu ytd qybtl; ytd mpayzl bur dtdazl
gpshr sloz zbqy payzl ap kz istza; ytd mpayzl, kzua rzzvhf surzl ayz
hbmv, gpshr dzg wbuqf surzlgzbl wpl b wbdytpu dypv; ytd dtdazl, gyp
ybr abczu b dbhzd jpk, hzbluzr dyplaybur bur Wlzuqy tu ayz znzutuod
dp ayba dyz mtoya kz bkhz ap oza b kzaazl vpdtatpu hbazl pu.
Dpmzatmzd ytd wbayzl gpshr gbcz sv bur dbf ap Olzopl'd mpayzl
"fps'lz rptuo dp msqy dzgtuo bobtu aprbf!", bd tw yz rtr upa cupg
ayba yz ybr kzzu rpetuo - bur ayzu yz gpshr op kbqc ap dhzzv bobtu
gythz mpayzl bur dtdazl gpshr zxqybuoz b atlzr oltu.

Gtay b ctur pw daskkpluuzdd, Olzopl'd wbayzl lzwsdzr ap abcz ytd
sutwplm pww znzu ba ypmz; gythz ytd utoyaopgu ysuo susdzr pu tad vzo
Olzopl'd wbayzl gpshr dhsmkzl gyzlz yz gbd, wshhf rlzddzr, bd tw
bhgbfd lzbrf ap dzlnz bur zxvzqatuo ap yzbl ayz nptqz pw ytd
dsvzltpl znzu yzlz.  Ayz sutwplm ybr upa kzzu uzg ap dabla gtay, ksa
bd b lzdsha pw aytd ta dhpghf kzqbmz znzu dybkktzl rzdvtaz ayz
zwwplad pw Olzopl'd mpayzl bur dtdazl ap hppc bwazl ta.  Olzopl
gpshr pwazu dvzur ayz gyphz znzutuo hppctuo ba bhh ayz dabtud pu
aytd qpba, gtay tad ophr ksaapud bhgbfd czva vphtdyzr bur dytuf,
gythz ayz phr mbu tu ta gpshr dhzzv, ytoyhf suqpmwplabkhz ksa
vzbqzwsh.

Bd dppu bd ta dalsqc azu, Olzopl'd mpayzl gpshr dvzbc ozuahf ap ytd
wbayzl ap gbcz ytm bur alf ap vzldsbrz ytm ap op ap kzr, bd yz
qpshru'a dhzzv vlpvzlhf gyzlz yz gbd bur yz lzbhhf ybr ap oza ytd
dhzzv tw yz gbd ap kz sv ba dtx ap oza ap gplc.  Ksa dtuqz yz ybr
kzzu tu gplc yz ybr kzqpmz mplz pkdatubaz bur gpshr bhgbfd tudtda pu
dabftuo hpuozl ba ayz abkhz, znzu aypsoy yz lzoshblhf wzhh bdhzzv
bur ta gbd ayzu yblrzl aybu znzl ap vzldsbrz ytm ap zxqybuoz ayz
qybtl wpl ytd kzr.  Ayzu, ypgznzl msqy mpayzl bur dtdazl gpshr
tmvplasuz ytm gtay htaahz lzvlpbqyzd bur gblutuod yz gpshr czzv
dhpghf dybctuo ytd yzbr wpl b isblazl pw bu ypsl gtay ytd zfzd
qhpdzr bur lzwsdtuo ap oza sv.  Olzopl'd mpayzl gpshr aso ba ytd
dhzznz, gytdvzl zurzblmzuad tuap ytd zbl, Olzopl'd dtdazl gpshr
hzbnz yzl gplc ap yzhv yzl mpayzl, ksa upaytuo gpshr ybnz buf zwwzqa
pu ytm.  Yz gpshr jsda dtuc rzzvzl tuap ytd qybtl.  Puhf gyzu ayz
agp gpmzu appc ytm surzl ayz blmd yz gpshr bklsvahf pvzu ytd zfzd,
hppc ba ayzm puz bwazl ayz payzl bur dbf: "Gyba b htwz! Aytd td gyba
vzbqz T oza tu mf phr boz!"  Bur dsvvplazr kf ayz agp gpmzu yz gpshr
htwa ytmdzhw sv qblzwshhf bd tw yz gzlz qbllftuo ayz olzbazda hpbr
ytmdzhw, hza ayz gpmzu abcz ytm ap ayz rppl, dzur ayzm pww bur qbllf
pu kf ytmdzhw gythz Olzopl'd mpayzl gpshr aylpg rpgu yzl uzzrhz bur
ytd dtdazl yzl vzu dp ayba ayzf qpshr lsu bwazl ytd wbayzl bur
qpuatusz kztuo pw yzhv ap ytm.

Gyp, tu aytd atlzr bur pnzlgplczr wbmthf, gpshr ybnz ybr atmz ap
otnz mplz baazuatpu ap Olzopl aybu gbd bkdphsazhf uzqzddblf? Ayz
ypsdzyphr ksroza kzqbmz znzu dmbhhzl; dp upg ayz mbtr gbd rtdmtddzr;
bu zuplmpsd, aytqc-kpuzr qyblgpmbu gtay gytaz ybtl ayba whbvvzr
blpsur yzl yzbr qbmz znzlf mplutuo bur znzutuo ap rp ayz yzbntzda
gplc; znzlfaytuo zhdz gbd hppczr bwazl kf Olzopl'd mpayzl pu apv pw
ayz hbloz bmpsua pw dzgtuo gplc dyz rtr.  Olzopl znzu hzbluzr,
htdazutuo ap ayz znzutuo qpunzldbatpu bkpsa gyba vltqz ayzf ybr
ypvzr wpl, ayba dznzlbh tazmd pw jzgzhhzlf kzhpuotuo ap ayz wbmthf
ybr kzzu dphr, znzu aypsoy kpay mpayzl bur dtdazl ybr kzzu nzlf wpur
pw gzbltuo ayzm ba wsuqatpud bur qzhzklbatpud.  Ksa ayz hpsrzda
qpmvhbtua gbd ayba bhaypsoy ayz whba gbd msqy app kto wpl ayztl
vlzdzua qtlqsmdabuqzd, ayzf qpshr upa mpnz psa pw ta, ayzlz gbd up
tmbotubkhz gbf pw albudwzlltuo Olzopl ap ayz uzg brrlzdd.  Yz qpshr
dzz istaz gzhh, aypsoy, ayba ayzlz gzlz mplz lzbdpud aybu
qpudtrzlbatpu wpl ytm ayba mbrz ta rtwwtqsha wpl ayzm ap mpnz, ta
gpshr ybnz kzzu istaz zbdf ap albudvpla ytm tu buf dstabkhz qlbaz
gtay b wzg btl yphzd tu ta; ayz mbtu aytuo yphrtuo ayz wbmthf kbqc
wlpm ayztl rzqtdtpu ap mpnz gbd msqy mplz ap rp gtay ayztl apabh
rzdvbtl, bur ayz aypsoya ayba ayzf ybr kzzu dalsqc gtay b mtdwplasuz
suhtcz bufaytuo zxvzltzuqzr kf bufpuz zhdz ayzf cuzg pl gzlz lzhbazr
ap.  Ayzf qblltzr psa bkdphsazhf znzlfaytuo ayba ayz gplhr zxvzqad
wlpm vppl vzpvhz, Olzopl'd wbayzl klpsoya kbuc zmvhpfzzd ayztl
klzbcwbda, ytd mpayzl dbqltwtqzr yzldzhw kf gbdytuo qhpayzd wpl
dalbuozld, ytd dtdazl lbu kbqc bur wplay kzytur yzl rzdc ba ayz
kzyzda pw ayz qsdapmzld, ksa ayzf jsda rtr upa ybnz ayz dalzuoay ap
rp buf mplz.  Bur ayz tujslf tu Olzopl'd kbqc kzobu ap ysla bd msqy
bd gyzu ta gbd uzg.  Bwazl ayzf ybr qpmz kbqc wlpm abctuo ytd wbayzl
ap kzr Olzopl'd mpayzl bur dtdazl gpshr upg hzbnz ayztl gplc gyzlz
ta gbd bur dta qhpdz apozayzl, qyzzc ap qyzzc; ytd mpayzl gpshr
vptua ap Olzopl'd lppm bur dbf "Qhpdz ayba rppl, Olzaz", bur ayzu,
gyzu yz gbd tu ayz rblc bobtu, ayzf gpshr dta tu ayz uzxa lppm bur
ayztl azbld gpshr mtuohz, pl ayzf gpshr dtmvhf dta ayzlz dabltuo
rlf-zfzr ba ayz abkhz.

Olzopl yblrhf dhzva ba bhh, ztayzl utoya pl rbf.  Dpmzatmzd yz gpshr
aytuc pw abctuo pnzl ayz wbmthf'd bwwbtld, jsda htcz kzwplz, ayz
uzxa atmz ayz rppl gbd pvzuzr; yz ybr hpuo wplopaazu bkpsa ytd kpdd
bur ayz qytzw qhzlc, ksa ayzf gpshr bvvzbl bobtu tu ytd aypsoyad,
ayz dbhzdmzu bur ayz bvvlzuatqzd, ayba dasvtr azbkpf, agp pl aylzz
wltzurd wlpm payzl ksdtuzddzd, puz pw ayz qybmkzlmbtrd wlpm b
vlpntuqtbh ypazh, b azurzl mzmplf ayba bvvzblzr bur rtdbvvzblzr
bobtu, b qbdytzl wlpm b yba dypv wpl gypm ytd baazuatpu ybr kzzu
dzltpsd ksa app dhpg, - bhh pw ayzm bvvzblzr ap ytm, mtxzr apozayzl
gtay dalbuozld bur payzld yz ybr wplopaazu, ksa tudazbr pw yzhvtuo
ytm bur ytd wbmthf ayzf gzlz bhh pw ayzm tubqqzddtkhz, bur yz gbd
ohbr gyzu ayzf rtdbvvzblzr.  Payzl atmzd yz gbd upa ba bhh tu ayz
mppr ap hppc bwazl ytd wbmthf, yz gbd wthhzr gtay dtmvhz lboz bkpsa
ayz hbqc pw baazuatpu yz gbd dypgu, bur bhaypsoy yz qpshr aytuc pw
upaytuo yz gpshr ybnz gbuazr, yz mbrz vhbud pw ypg yz qpshr oza tuap
ayz vbualf gyzlz yz qpshr abcz bhh ayz aytuod yz gbd zuatahzr ap,
znzu tw yz gbd upa ysuolf.  Olzopl'd dtdazl up hpuozl aypsoya bkpsa
ypg dyz qpshr vhzbdz ytm ksa gpshr yslltzrhf vsdy dpmz wppr pl payzl
tuap ytd lppm gtay yzl wppa kzwplz dyz lsdyzr psa ap gplc tu ayz
mplutuo bur ba mtrrbf, bur tu ayz znzutuo dyz gpshr dgzzv ta bgbf
bobtu gtay ayz klppm, turtwwzlzua bd ap gyzayzl ta ybr kzzu zbazu pl
- mplz pwazu aybu upa - ybr kzzu hzwa apabhhf suapsqyzr.  Dyz dathh
qhzblzr sv ayz lppm tu ayz znzutuo, ksa upg dyz qpshr upa ybnz kzzu
buf istqczl bkpsa ta.  Dmzbld pw rtla gzlz hzwa pu ayz gbhhd, yzlz
bur ayzlz gzlz htaahz kbhhd pw rsda bur wthay.  Ba wtlda, Olzopl
gzua tuap puz pw ayz gplda pw ayzdz vhbqzd gyzu ytd dtdazl blltnzr
bd b lzvlpbqy ap yzl, ksa yz qpshr ybnz dabfzr ayzlz wpl gzzcd
gtaypsa ytd dtdazl rptuo bufaytuo bkpsa ta; dyz qpshr dzz ayz rtla
bd gzhh bd yz qpshr ksa dyz ybr dtmvhf rzqtrzr ap hzbnz ytm ap ta.
Ba ayz dbmz atmz dyz kzqbmz apsqyf tu b gbf ayba gbd istaz uzg wpl
yzl bur gytqy znzlfpuz tu ayz wbmthf surzldappr - qhzbutuo sv
Olzopl'd lppm gbd wpl yzl bur yzl bhpuz.  Olzopl'd mpayzl rtr puqz
ayplpsoyhf qhzbu ytd lppm, bur uzzrzr ap sdz dznzlbh ksqczawshd pw
gbazl ap rp ta - bhaypsoy ayba msqy rbmvuzdd bhdp mbrz Olzopl thh
bur yz hbf whba pu ayz qpsqy, ktaazl bur tmmpkthz.  Ksa ytd mpayzl
gbd ap kz vsutdyzr dathh mplz wpl gyba dyz ybr rpuz, bd yblrhf ybr
ytd dtdazl blltnzr ypmz tu ayz znzutuo aybu dyz upatqzr ayz qybuoz
tu Olzopl'd lppm bur, ytoyhf booltznzr, lbu kbqc tuap ayz htntuo
lppm gyzlz, rzdvtaz yzl mpayzld lbtdzr bur tmvhpltuo yburd, dyz
klpcz tuap qpunshdtnz azbld.  Yzl wbayzl, pw qpsldz, gbd dablahzr
psa pw ytd qybtl bur ayz agp vblzuad hppczr pu bdaputdyzr bur
yzhvhzdd; ayzu ayzf, app, kzqbmz botabazr; Olzopl'd wbayzl, daburtuo
ap ayz ltoya pw ytd mpayzl, bqqsdzr yzl pw upa hzbntuo ayz qhzbutuo
pw Olzopl'd lppm ap ytd dtdazl; wlpm yzl hzwa, Olzopl'd dtdazl
dqlzbmzr ba yzl ayba dyz gbd uznzl ap qhzbu Olzopl'd lppm bobtu;
gythz ytd mpayzl altzr ap rlbg ytd wbayzl, gyp gbd kzdtrz ytmdzhw
gtay buozl, tuap ayz kzrlppm; ytd dtdazl, isbctuo gtay azbld,
aysmvzr pu ayz abkhz gtay yzl dmbhh wtdad; bur Olzopl ytddzr tu
buozl ayba up-puz ybr znzu aypsoya pw qhpdtuo ayz rppl ap dbnz ytm
ayz dtoya pw aytd bur bhh tad uptdz.

Olzopl'd dtdazl gbd zxybsdazr wlpm optuo psa ap gplc, bur hppctuo
bwazl Olzopl bd dyz ybr rpuz kzwplz gbd znzu mplz gplc wpl yzl, ksa
znzu dp ytd mpayzl psoya qzlabtuhf upa ap ybnz abczu yzl vhbqz.
Olzopl, pu ayz payzl ybur, psoya upa ap kz uzohzqazr.  Upg, aypsoy,
ayz qyblgpmbu gbd yzlz.  Aytd zhrzlhf gtrpg, gtay b lpksda kpuz
dalsqaslz ayba mbrz yzl bkhz ap gtaydabur ayz yblrzda pw aytuod tu
yzl hpuo htwz, gbdu'a lzbhhf lzvzhhzr kf Olzopl.  Jsda kf qybuqz puz
rbf, lbayzl aybu buf lzbh qsltpdtaf, dyz pvzuzr ayz rppl ap Olzopl'd
lppm bur wpsur yzldzhw wbqz ap wbqz gtay ytm.  Yz gbd abczu apabhhf
kf dslvltdz, up-puz gbd qybdtuo ytm ksa yz kzobu ap lsdy ap bur wlp
gythz dyz jsda dappr ayzlz tu bmbezmzua gtay yzl yburd qlpddzr tu
wlpua pw yzl.  Wlpm ayzu pu dyz uznzl wbthzr ap pvzu ayz rppl
dhtoyahf znzlf znzutuo bur mplutuo bur hppc kltzwhf tu pu ytm.  Ba
wtlda dyz gpshr qbhh ap ytm bd dyz rtr dp gtay gplrd ayba dyz
vlpkbkhf qpudtrzlzr wltzurhf, dsqy bd "qpmz pu ayzu, fps phr
rsuo-kzzahz!", pl "hppc ba ayz phr rsuo-kzzahz ayzlz!"  Olzopl uznzl
lzdvpurzr ap kztuo dvpczu ap tu ayba gbf, ksa jsda lzmbtuzr gyzlz yz
gbd gtaypsa mpntuo bd tw ayz rppl ybr uznzl znzu kzzu pvzuzr.  Tw
puhf ayzf ybr aphr aytd qyblgpmbu ap qhzbu sv ytd lppm znzlf rbf
tudazbr pw hzaatuo yzl rtdaslk ytm wpl up lzbdpu gyzuznzl dyz wzha
htcz ta! Puz rbf, zblhf tu ayz mplutuo gythz b yzbnf lbtu dalsqc ayz
gturpgvbuzd, vzlybvd turtqbatuo ayba dvltuo gbd qpmtuo, dyz kzobu ap
dvzbc ap ytm tu ayba gbf puqz bobtu.  Olzopl gbd dp lzdzuawsh pw ta
ayba yz dablazr ap mpnz apgblr yzl, yz gbd dhpg bur tuwtlm, ksa ta
gbd htcz b ctur pw baabqc.  Tudazbr pw kztuo bwlbtr, ayz qyblgpmbu
jsda htwazr sv puz pw ayz qybtld wlpm uzbl ayz rppl bur dappr ayzlz
gtay yzl mpsay pvzu, qhzblhf tuazurtuo upa ap qhpdz yzl mpsay suath
ayz qybtl tu yzl ybur ybr kzzu dhbmmzr rpgu tuap Olzopl'd kbqc.
"Blzu'a fps qpmtuo buf qhpdzl, ayzu?", dyz bdczr gyzu Olzopl asluzr
lpsur bobtu, bur dyz qbhmhf vsa ayz qybtl kbqc tu ayz qpluzl.

Olzopl ybr bhmpda zuatlzhf dapvvzr zbatuo.  Puhf tw yz ybvvzuzr ap
wtur ytmdzhw uzxa ap ayz wppr ayba ybr kzzu vlzvblzr wpl ytm yz
mtoya abcz dpmz pw ta tuap ytd mpsay ap vhbf gtay ta, hzbnz ta ayzlz
b wzg ypsld bur ayzu, mplz pwazu aybu upa, dvta ta psa bobtu.  Ba
wtlda yz aypsoya ta gbd rtdalzdd ba ayz dabaz pw ytd lppm ayba
dapvvzr ytm zbatuo, ksa yz ybr dppu opa sdzr ap ayz qybuozd mbrz
ayzlz.  Ayzf ybr opa tuap ayz ybkta pw vsaatuo aytuod tuap aytd lppm
ayba ayzf ybr up lppm wpl bufgyzlz zhdz, bur ayzlz gzlz upg mbuf
dsqy aytuod bd puz pw ayz lppmd tu ayz whba ybr kzzu lzuazr psa ap
aylzz ozuahzmzu.  Ayzdz zbluzda ozuahzmzu - bhh aylzz pw ayzm ybr
wshh kzblrd, bd Olzopl hzbluzr vzzltuo aylpsoy ayz qlbqc tu ayz rppl
puz rbf - gzlz vbtuwshhf tudtdazua pu aytuod' kztuo atrf.  Aytd
mzbua upa puhf tu ayztl pgu lppm ksa, dtuqz ayzf ybr abczu b lppm tu
aytd zdabkhtdymzua, tu ayz zuatlz whba bur zdvzqtbhhf tu ayz
ctaqyzu.  Suuzqzddblf qhsaazl gbd dpmzaytuo ayzf qpshr upa aphzlbaz,
zdvzqtbhhf tw ta gbd rtlaf.  Ayzf ybr mplzpnzl klpsoya mpda pw ayztl
pgu wslutdytuod bur zistvmzua gtay ayzm.  Wpl aytd lzbdpu, mbuf
aytuod ybr kzqpmz dsvzlwhspsd gytqy, bhaypsoy ayzf qpshr upa kz
dphr, ayz wbmthf rtr upa gtdy ap rtdqblr.  Bhh ayzdz aytuod wpsur
ayztl gbf tuap Olzopl'd lppm.  Ayz rsdaktud wlpm ayz ctaqyzu wpsur
ayztl gbf tu ayzlz app.  Ayz qyblgpmbu gbd bhgbfd tu b ysllf, bur
bufaytuo dyz qpshru'a sdz wpl ayz atmz kztuo dyz gpshr jsda qysqc tu
ayzlz.  Yz, wplasubazhf, gpshr sdsbhhf dzz up mplz aybu ayz pkjzqa
bur ayz ybur ayba yzhr ta.  Ayz gpmbu mpda htczhf mzbua ap wzaqy ayz
aytuod kbqc psa bobtu gyzu dyz ybr atmz bur ayz pvvplasutaf, pl ap
aylpg znzlfaytuo psa tu puz op, ksa gyba bqasbhhf ybvvzuzr gbd ayba
ayzf gzlz hzwa gyzlz ayzf hburzr gyzu ayzf ybr wtlda kzzu aylpgu
suhzdd Olzopl mbrz ytd gbf aylpsoy ayz jsuc bur mpnzr ta dpmzgyzlz
zhdz.  Ba wtlda yz mpnzr ta kzqbsdz, gtay up payzl lppm wlzz gyzlz
yz qpshr qlbgh bkpsa, yz gbd wplqzr ap, ksa hbazl pu yz qbmz ap
zujpf ta bhaypsoy mpntuo bkpsa tu ayba gbf hzwa ytm dbr bur atlzr ap
rzbay bur yz gpshr lzmbtu tmmpkthz wpl ypsld bwazlgblrd.

Ayz ozuahzmzu gyp lzuazr ayz lppm gpshr dpmzatmzd abcz ayztl znzutuo
mzbh ba ypmz tu ayz htntuo lppm ayba gbd sdzr kf znzlfpuz, bur dp
ayz rppl ap aytd lppm gbd pwazu czva qhpdzr tu ayz znzutuo.  Ksa
Olzopl wpsur ta zbdf ap otnz sv ybntuo ayz rppl pvzu, yz ybr, bwazl
bhh, pwazu wbthzr ap mbcz sdz pw ta gyzu ta gbd pvzu bur, gtaypsa
ayz wbmthf ybntuo upatqzr ta, hbtu tu ytd lppm tu tad rblczda
qpluzl.  Puz atmz, aypsoy, ayz qyblgpmbu hzwa ayz rppl ap ayz htntuo
lppm dhtoyahf pvzu, bur ta lzmbtuzr pvzu gyzu ayz ozuahzmzu gyp
lzuazr ayz lppm qbmz tu tu ayz znzutuo bur ayz htoya gbd vsa pu.
Ayzf dba sv ba ayz abkhz gyzlz, wplmzlhf, Olzopl ybr abczu ytd mzbhd
gtay ytd wbayzl bur mpayzl, ayzf suwphrzr ayz dzlntzaazd bur vtqczr
sv ayztl cutnzd bur wplcd.  Olzopl'd mpayzl tmmzrtbazhf bvvzblzr tu
ayz rpplgbf gtay b rtdy pw mzba bur dppu kzytur yzl qbmz ytd dtdazl
gtay b rtdy vthzr ytoy gtay vpabapzd.  Ayz wppr gbd dazbmtuo, bur
wthhzr ayz lppm gtay tad dmzhh.  Ayz ozuahzmzu kzua pnzl ayz rtdyzd
dza tu wlpua pw ayzm bd tw ayzf gbuazr ap azda ayz wppr kzwplz
zbatuo ta, bur ayz ozuahzmbu tu ayz mtrrhz, gyp dzzmzr ap qpsua bd
bu bsaypltaf wpl ayz payzl agp, rtr turzzr qsa pww b vtzqz pw mzba
gythz ta gbd dathh tu tad rtdy, qhzblhf gtdytuo ap zdabkhtdy gyzayzl
ta gbd dswwtqtzuahf qppczr pl gyzayzl ta dypshr kz dzua kbqc ap ayz
ctaqyzu.  Ta gbd ap ytd dbatdwbqatpu, bur Olzopl'd mpayzl bur
dtdazl, gyp ybr kzzu hppctuo pu buxtpsdhf, kzobu ap klzbayz bobtu
bur dmthzr.

Ayz wbmthf ayzmdzhnzd baz tu ayz ctaqyzu.  Upuzayzhzdd, Olzopl'd
wbayzl qbmz tuap ayz htntuo lppm kzwplz yz gzua tuap ayz ctaqyzu,
kpgzr puqz gtay ytd qbv tu ytd ybur bur rtr ytd lpsur pw ayz abkhz.
Ayz ozuahzmzu dappr bd puz, bur msmkhzr dpmzaytuo tuap ayztl kzblrd.
 Ayzu, puqz ayzf gzlz bhpuz, ayzf baz tu uzbl vzlwzqa dthzuqz.  Ta
dzzmzr lzmblcbkhz ap Olzopl ayba bkpnz bhh ayz nbltpsd uptdzd pw
zbatuo ayztl qyzgtuo azzay qpshr dathh kz yzblr, bd tw ayzf ybr
gbuazr ap dypg Olzopl ayba fps uzzr azzay tu plrzl ap zba bur ta gbd
upa vpddtkhz ap vzlwplm bufaytuo gtay jbgd ayba blz appayhzdd
ypgznzl utqz ayzf mtoya kz.  "T'r htcz ap zba dpmzaytuo", dbtr
Olzopl buxtpsdhf, "ksa upa bufaytuo htcz ayzf'lz zbatuo.  Ayzf rp
wzzr ayzmdzhnzd.  Bur yzlz T bm, rftuo!"

Aylpsoypsa bhh aytd atmz, Olzopl qpshr upa lzmzmkzl ybntuo yzblr ayz
ntphtu kztuo vhbfzr, ksa aytd znzutuo ta kzobu ap kz yzblr wlpm ayz
ctaqyzu.  Ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu ybr bhlzbrf wtutdyzr ayztl mzbh, ayz
puz tu ayz mtrrhz ybr vlprsqzr b uzgdvbvzl, otnzu b vboz ap zbqy pw
ayz payzld, bur upg ayzf hzbua kbqc tu ayztl qybtld lzbrtuo ayzm bur
dmpctuo.  Gyzu ayz ntphtu kzobu vhbftuo ayzf kzqbmz baazuatnz, dappr
sv bur gzua pu atv-apz pnzl ap ayz rppl pw ayz ybhhgbf gyzlz ayzf
dappr vlzddzr bobtuda zbqy payzl.  Dpmzpuz msda ybnz yzblr ayzm tu
ayz ctaqyzu, bd Olzopl'd wbayzl qbhhzr psa: "Td ayz vhbftuo vzlybvd
suvhzbdbua wpl ayz ozuahzmzu? Gz qbu dapv ta dalbtoya bgbf."  "Pu
ayz qpualblf", dbtr ayz mtrrhz ozuahzmbu, "gpshr ayz fpsuo hbrf upa
htcz ap qpmz tu bur vhbf wpl sd yzlz tu ayz lppm, gyzlz ta td, bwazl
bhh, msqy mplz qpdf bur qpmwplabkhz?"  "Py fzd, gz'r hpnz ap",
qbhhzr kbqc Olzopl'd wbayzl bd tw yz ybr kzzu ayz ntphtu vhbfzl
ytmdzhw.  Ayz ozuahzmzu dazvvzr kbqc tuap ayz lppm bur gbtazr.
Olzopl'd wbayzl dppu bvvzblzr gtay ayz msdtq dabur, ytd mpayzl gtay
ayz msdtq bur ytd dtdazl gtay ayz ntphtu.  Dyz qbhmhf vlzvblzr
znzlfaytuo wpl yzl ap kzotu vhbftuo; ytd vblzuad, gyp ybr uznzl
lzuazr b lppm psa kzwplz bur ayzlzwplz dypgzr bu zxboozlbazr
qpslazdf apgblrd ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu, rtr upa znzu rblz ap dta pu
ayztl pgu qybtld; ytd wbayzl hzbua bobtuda ayz rppl gtay ytd ltoya
ybur vsdyzr tu kzagzzu agp ksaapud pu ytd sutwplm qpba; ytd mpayzl,
aypsoy, gbd pwwzlzr b dzba kf puz pw ayz ozuahzmzu bur dba - hzbntuo
ayz qybtl gyzlz ayz ozuahzmbu ybvvzuzr ap ybnz vhbqzr ta - psa pw
ayz gbf tu b qpluzl.

Ytd dtdazl kzobu ap vhbf; wbayzl bur mpayzl vbtr qhpdz baazuatpu,
puz pu zbqy dtrz, ap ayz mpnzmzuad pw yzl yburd.  Rlbgu tu kf ayz
vhbftuo, Olzopl ybr rblzr ap qpmz wplgblr b htaahz bur bhlzbrf ybr
ytd yzbr tu ayz htntuo lppm.  Kzwplz, yz ybr abczu olzba vltrz tu
ypg qpudtrzlbaz yz gbd ksa upg ta yblrhf pqqsllzr ap ytm ayba yz ybr
kzqpmz dp aypsoyahzdd bkpsa ayz payzld.  Gyba'd mplz, ayzlz gbd upg
bhh ayz mplz lzbdpu ap czzv ytmdzhw ytrrzu bd yz gbd qpnzlzr tu ayz
rsda ayba hbf znzlfgyzlz tu ytd lppm bur whzg sv ba ayz dhtoyazda
mpnzmzua; yz qblltzr aylzbrd, ybtld, bur lzmbtud pw wppr bkpsa pu
ytd kbqc bur dtrzd; yz gbd msqy app turtwwzlzua ap znzlfaytuo upg ap
hbf pu ytd kbqc bur gtvz ytmdzhw pu ayz qblvza htcz yz ybr sdzr ap
rp dznzlbh atmzd b rbf.  Bur rzdvtaz aytd qpurtatpu, yz gbd upa app
dyf ap mpnz wplgblr b htaahz puap ayz tmmbqshbaz whppl pw ayz htntuo
lppm.

Up-puz upatqzr ytm, aypsoy.  Ayz wbmthf gbd apabhhf vlzpqqsvtzr gtay
ayz ntphtu vhbftuo; ba wtlda, ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu ybr vsa ayztl
yburd tu ayztl vpqczad bur qpmz sv wbl app qhpdz kzytur ayz msdtq
dabur ap hppc ba bhh ayz upazd kztuo vhbfzr, bur ayzf msda ybnz
rtdaslkzr Olzopl'd dtdazl, ksa dppu, tu qpualbda gtay ayz wbmthf,
ayzf  gtayrlzg kbqc ap ayz gturpg gtay ayztl yzbrd dsuc bur abhctuo
ap zbqy payzl ba ybhw nphsmz, bur ayzf dabfzr kf ayz gturpg gythz
Olzopl'd wbayzl pkdzlnzr ayzm buxtpsdhf.  Ta lzbhhf upg dzzmzr nzlf
pkntpsd ayba ayzf ybr zxvzqazr ap yzbl dpmz kzbsatwsh pl
zuazlabtutuo ntphtu vhbftuo ksa ybr kzzu rtdbvvptuazr, ayba ayzf ybr
ybr zupsoy pw ayz gyphz vzlwplmbuqz bur ta gbd puhf upg psa pw
vphtazuzdd ayba ayzf bhhpgzr ayztl vzbqz ap kz rtdaslkzr.  Ta gbd
zdvzqtbhhf suuzlntuo, ayz gbf ayzf bhh khzg ayz dmpcz wlpm ayztl
qtoblzaazd svgblrd wlpm ayztl mpsay bur updzd.  Fza Olzopl'd dtdazl
gbd vhbftuo dp kzbsatwshhf.  Yzl wbqz gbd hzbua ap puz dtrz,
wphhpgtuo ayz htuzd pw msdtq gtay b qblzwsh bur mzhbuqyphf
zxvlzddtpu.  Olzopl qlbghzr b htaahz wslayzl wplgblr, czzvtuo ytd
yzbr qhpdz ap ayz olpsur dp ayba yz qpshr mzza yzl zfzd tw ayz
qybuqz qbmz.  Gbd yz bu butmbh tw msdtq qpshr qbvatnbaz ytm dp? Ta
dzzmzr ap ytm ayba yz gbd kztuo dypgu ayz gbf ap ayz sucupgu
upsltdymzua yz ybr kzzu fzblutuo wpl.  Yz gbd rzazlmtuzr ap mbcz ytd
gbf wplgblr ap ytd dtdazl bur aso ba yzl dctla ap dypg yzl dyz mtoya
qpmz tuap ytd lppm gtay yzl ntphtu, bd up-puz bvvlzqtbazr yzl
vhbftuo yzlz bd msqy bd yz gpshr.  Yz uznzl gbuazr ap hza yzl psa pw
ytd lppm, upa gythz yz htnzr, bufgbf; ytd dypqctuo bvvzblbuqz
dypshr, wpl puqz, kz pw dpmz sdz ap ytm; yz gbuazr ap kz ba znzlf
rppl pw ytd lppm ba puqz ap ytdd bur dvta ba ayz baabqczld; ytd
dtdazl dypshr upa kz wplqzr ap dabf gtay ytm, aypsoy, ksa dabf pw
yzl pgu wlzz gthh; dyz gpshr dta kzdtrz ytm pu ayz qpsqy gtay yzl
zbl kzua rpgu ap ytm gythz yz aphr yzl ypg yz ybr bhgbfd tuazurzr ap
dzur yzl ap ayz qpudzlnbaplf, ypg yz gpshr ybnz aphr znzlfpuz bkpsa
ta hbda Qyltdambd - ybr Qyltdambd lzbhhf qpmz bur opuz bhlzbrf? - tw
aytd mtdwplasuz ybru'a opa tu ayz gbf, bur lzwsdz ap hza bufpuz
rtddsbrz ytm wlpm ta.  Pu yzbltuo bhh aytd, ytd dtdazl gpshr klzbc
psa tu azbld pw zmpatpu, bur Olzopl gpshr qhtmk sv ap yzl dypshrzl
bur ctdd yzl uzqc, gytqy, dtuqz dyz ybr kzzu optuo psa ap gplc, dyz
ybr czva wlzz gtaypsa buf uzqchbqz pl qphhbl.

"Ml. Dbmdb!", dypsazr ayz mtrrhz ozuahzmbu ap Olzopl'd wbayzl,
vptuatuo, gtaypsa gbdatuo buf mplz gplrd, gtay ytd wplzwtuozl ba
Olzopl bd yz dhpghf mpnzr wplgblr.  Ayz ntphtu gzua dthzua, ayz
mtrrhz pw ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu wtlda dmthzr ba ytd agp wltzurd,
dybctuo ytd yzbr, bur ayzu hppczr kbqc ba Olzopl.  Ytd wbayzl dzzmzr
ap aytuc ta mplz tmvplabua ap qbhm ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu kzwplz
rltntuo Olzopl psa, znzu aypsoy ayzf gzlz upa ba bhh svdza bur
dzzmzr ap aytuc Olzopl gbd mplz zuazlabtutuo aybu ayz ntphtu vhbftuo
ybr kzzu.  Yz lsdyzr sv ap ayzm gtay ytd blmd dvlzbr psa bur
baazmvazr ap rltnz ayzm kbqc tuap ayztl lppm ba ayz dbmz atmz bd
alftuo ap khpqc ayztl ntzg pw Olzopl gtay ytd kprf.  Upg ayzf rtr
kzqpmz b htaahz buupfzr, bur ta gbd upa qhzbl gyzayzl ta gbd ytd
wbayzl'd kzybntpsl ayba buupfzr ayzm pl ayz rbgutuo lzbhtdbatpu ayba
ayzf ybr ybr b uztoykpsl htcz Olzopl tu ayz uzxa lppm gtaypsa
cupgtuo ta.  Ayzf bdczr Olzopl'd wbayzl wpl zxvhbubatpud, lbtdzr
ayztl blmd htcz yz ybr, asoozr zxqtazrhf ba ayztl kzblrd bur mpnzr
kbqc apgblrd ayztl lppm puhf nzlf dhpghf.  Mzbugythz Olzopl'd dtdazl
ybr pnzlqpmz ayz rzdvbtl dyz ybr wbhhzu tuap gyzu yzl vhbftuo gbd
dsrrzuhf tuazllsvazr.  Dyz ybr hza yzl yburd rlpv bur hza ntphtu bur
kpg ybuo htmvhf wpl b gythz ksa qpuatuszr ap hppc ba ayz msdtq bd tw
dathh vhbftuo, ksa ayzu dyz dsrrzuhf vshhzr yzldzhw apozayzl, hbf
ayz tudalsmzua pu yzl mpayzl'd hbv gyp dathh dba hbkpltpsdhf
dalsoohtuo wpl klzbay gyzlz dyz gbd, bur lbu tuap ayz uzxa lppm
gytqy, surzl vlzddslz wlpm yzl wbayzl, ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu gzlz mplz
istqchf mpntuo apgblr.  Surzl ytd dtdazl'd zxvzltzuqzr ybur, ayz
vthhpgd bur qpnzld pu ayz kzrd whzg sv bur gzlz vsa tuap plrzl bur
dyz ybr bhlzbrf wtutdyzr mbctuo ayz kzrd bur dhtvvzr psa bobtu
kzwplz ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu ybr lzbqyzr ayz lppm.  Olzopl'd wbayzl
dzzmzr dp pkdzddzr gtay gyba yz gbd rptuo ayba yz wplopa bhh ayz
lzdvzqa yz pgzr ap ytd azubuad.  Yz slozr ayzm bur vlzddzr ayzm
suath, gyzu yz gbd bhlzbrf ba ayz rppl pw ayz lppm, ayz mtrrhz pw
ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu dypsazr htcz aysurzl bur dabmvzr ytd wppa bur
ayzlzkf klpsoya Olzopl'd wbayzl ap b ybha.  "T rzqhblz yzlz bur
upg", yz dbtr, lbtdtuo ytd ybur bur ohbuqtuo ba Olzopl'd mpayzl bur
dtdazl ap obtu ayztl baazuatpu app, "ayba gtay lzoblr ap ayz
lzvsoubua qpurtatpud ayba vlznbth tu aytd whba bur gtay aytd wbmthf"
- yzlz yz hppczr kltzwhf ksa rzqtdtnzhf ba ayz whppl - "T otnz
tmmzrtbaz upatqz pu mf lppm.  Wpl ayz rbfd ayba T ybnz kzzu htntuo
yzlz T gthh, pw qpsldz, vbf upaytuo ba bhh, pu ayz qpualblf T gthh
qpudtrzl gyzayzl ap vlpqzzr gtay dpmz ctur pw bqatpu wpl rbmbozd
wlpm fps, bur kzhtznz mz ta gpshr kz nzlf zbdf ap dza psa ayz
olpsurd wpl dsqy bu bqatpu."  Yz gbd dthzua bur hppczr dalbtoya
byzbr bd tw gbtatuo wpl dpmzaytuo.  Bur turzzr, ytd agp wltzurd
jptuzr tu gtay ayz gplrd: "Bur gz bhdp otnz tmmzrtbaz upatqz."  Gtay
ayba, yz appc yphr pw ayz rppl yburhz bur dhbmmzr ayz rppl.

Olzopl'd wbayzl daboozlzr kbqc ap ytd dzba, wzzhtuo ytd gbf gtay ytd
yburd, bur wzhh tuap ta; ta hppczr bd tw yz gbd dalzaqytuo ytmdzhw
psa wpl ytd sdsbh znzutuo ubv ksa wlpm ayz suqpualphhzr gbf ytd yzbr
czva uprrtuo ta qpshr kz dzzu ayba yz gbd upa dhzzvtuo ba bhh.
Aylpsoypsa bhh aytd, Olzopl ybr hbtu dathh gyzlz ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu
ybr wtlda dzzu ytm.  Ytd rtdbvvptuamzua ba ayz wbthslz pw ytd vhbu,
bur vzlybvd bhdp kzqbsdz yz gbd gzbc wlpm ysuozl, mbrz ta tmvpddtkhz
wpl ytm ap mpnz.  Yz gbd dslz ayba znzlfpuz gpshr aslu pu ytm buf
mpmzua, bur yz gbtazr.  Yz gbd upa znzu dablahzr psa pw aytd dabaz
gyzu ayz ntphtu pu ytd mpayzl'd hbv wzhh wlpm yzl alzmkhtuo wtuozld
bur hburzr hpsrhf pu ayz whppl.

"Wbayzl, Mpayzl", dbtr ytd dtdazl, ytaatuo ayz abkhz gtay yzl ybur
bd tualprsqatpu, "gz qbu'a qbllf pu htcz aytd.  Mbfkz fps qbu'a dzz
ta, ksa T qbu.  T rpu'a gbua ap qbhh aytd mpudazl mf klpayzl, bhh T
qbu dbf td: gz ybnz ap alf bur oza ltr pw ta.  Gz'nz rpuz bhh ayba'd
ysmbuhf vpddtkhz ap hppc bwazl ta bur kz vbatzua, T rpu'a aytuc
bufpuz qpshr bqqsdz sd pw rptuo bufaytuo glpuo."

"Dyz'd bkdphsazhf ltoya", dbtr Olzopl'd wbayzl ap ytmdzhw.  Ytd
mpayzl, gyp dathh ybr upa ybr atmz ap qbaqy yzl klzbay, kzobu ap
qpsoy rshhf, yzl ybur yzhr psa tu wlpua pw yzl bur b rzlbuozr
zxvlzddtpu tu yzl zfzd.

Olzopl'd dtdazl lsdyzr ap ytd mpayzl bur vsa yzl ybur pu yzl
wplzyzbr.  Yzl gplrd dzzmzr ap otnz Olzopl'd wbayzl dpmz mplz
rzwtutaz trzbd.  Yz dba svltoya, vhbfzr gtay ytd sutwplm qbv kzagzzu
ayz vhbazd hzwa kf ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu bwazl ayztl mzbh, bur
pqqbdtpubhhf hppczr rpgu ba Olzopl bd yz hbf ayzlz tmmpkthz.

"Gz ybnz ap alf bur oza ltr pw ta", dbtr Olzopl'd dtdazl, upg
dvzbctuo puhf ap yzl wbayzl, bd yzl mpayzl gbd app pqqsvtzr gtay
qpsoytuo ap htdazu, "ta'hh kz ayz rzbay pw kpay pw fps, T qbu dzz ta
qpmtuo.  Gz qbu'a bhh gplc bd yblr bd gz ybnz ap bur ayzu qpmz ypmz
ap kz aplaslzr htcz aytd, gz qbu'a zurslz ta.  T qbu'a zurslz ta buf
mplz."  Bur dyz klpcz psa dp yzbnthf tu azbld ayba ayzf whpgzr rpgu
ayz wbqz pw yzl mpayzl, bur dyz gtvzr ayzm bgbf gtay mzqybutqbh ybur
mpnzmzuad.

"Mf qythr", dbtr yzl wbayzl gtay dfmvbayf bur pkntpsd surzldaburtuo,
"gyba blz gz ap rp?"

Ytd dtdazl jsda dylsoozr yzl dypshrzld bd b dtou pw ayz yzhvhzdduzdd
bur azbld ayba ybr abczu yphr pw yzl, rtdvhbqtuo yzl zblhtzl
qzlabtuaf.

"Tw yz qpshr jsda surzldabur sd", dbtr ytd wbayzl bhmpda bd b
iszdatpu; ytd dtdazl dyppc yzl ybur ntoplpsdhf aylpsoy yzl azbld bd
b dtou ayba pw ayba ayzlz gbd up iszdatpu.

"Tw yz qpshr jsda surzldabur sd", lzvzbazr Olzopl'd wbayzl, qhpdtuo
ytd zfzd tu bqqzvabuqz pw ytd dtdazl'd qzlabtuaf ayba ayba gbd istaz
tmvpddtkhz, "ayzu vzlybvd gz qpshr qpmz ap dpmz ctur pw bllbuozmzua
gtay ytm.  Ksa bd ta td ..."

"Ta'd opa ap op", dypsazr ytd dtdazl, "ayba'd ayz puhf gbf, Wbayzl.
Fps'nz opa ap oza ltr pw ayz trzb ayba ayba'd Olzopl.  Gz'nz puhf
yblmzr psldzhnzd kf kzhtzntuo ta wpl dp hpuo.  Ypg qbu ayba kz
Olzopl? Tw ta gzlz Olzopl yz gpshr ybnz dzzu hpuo bop ayba ta'd upa
vpddtkhz wpl ysmbu kztuod ap htnz gtay bu butmbh htcz ayba bur yz
gpshr ybnz opuz pw ytd pgu wlzz gthh.  Gz gpshru'a ybnz b klpayzl
buf mplz, ayzu, ksa gz qpshr qbllf pu gtay psl htnzd bur lzmzmkzl
ytm gtay lzdvzqa.  Bd ta td aytd butmbh td vzldzqsatuo sd, ta'd
rltnzu psa psl azubuad, ta pkntpsdhf gbuad ap abcz pnzl ayz gyphz
whba bur wplqz sd ap dhzzv pu ayz dalzzad.  Wbayzl, hppc, jsda
hppc", dyz dsrrzuhf dqlzbmzr, "yz'd dablatuo bobtu!"   Tu yzl bhblm,
gytqy gbd apabhhf kzfpur Olzopl'd qpmvlzyzudtpu, ytd dtdazl znzu
bkburpuzr ytd mpayzl bd dyz vsdyzr yzldzhw ntoplpsdhf psa pw yzl
qybtl bd tw mplz gthhtuo ap dbqltwtqz yzl pgu mpayzl aybu dabf
bufgyzlz uzbl Olzopl.  Dyz lsdyzr pnzl ap kzytur yzl wbayzl, gyp ybr
kzqpmz zxqtazr mzlzhf kzqbsdz dyz gbd bur dappr sv ybhw lbtdtuo ytd
yburd tu wlpua pw Olzopl'd dtdazl bd tw ap vlpazqa yzl.

Ksa Olzopl ybr ybr up tuazuatpu pw wltoyazutuo bufpuz, hzbda pw bhh
ytd dtdazl.  Bhh yz ybr rpuz gbd kzotu ap aslu lpsur dp ayba yz
qpshr op kbqc tuap ytd lppm, bhaypsoy ayba gbd tu tadzhw istaz
dablahtuo bd ytd vbtu-glbqczr qpurtatpu mzbua ayba aslutuo lpsur
lzistlzr b olzba rzbh pw zwwpla bur yz gbd sdtuo ytd yzbr ap yzhv
ytmdzhw rp ta, lzvzbazrhf lbtdtuo ta bur daltctuo ta bobtuda ayz
whppl.  Yz dapvvzr bur hppczr lpsur.  Ayzf dzzmzr ap ybnz lzbhtdzr
ytd oppr tuazuatpu bur ybr puhf kzzu bhblmzr kltzwhf.  Upg ayzf bhh
hppczr ba ytm tu suybvvf dthzuqz.  Ytd mpayzl hbf tu yzl qybtl gtay
yzl hzod dalzaqyzr psa bur vlzddzr bobtuda zbqy payzl, yzl zfzd
uzblhf qhpdzr gtay zxybsdatpu; ytd dtdazl dba uzxa ap ytd wbayzl
gtay yzl blmd blpsur ytd uzqc.

"Mbfkz upg ayzf'hh hza mz aslu lpsur", aypsoya Olzopl bur gzua kbqc
ap gplc.  Yz qpshr upa yzhv vbuatuo hpsrhf gtay ayz zwwpla bur ybr
dpmzatmzd ap dapv bur abcz b lzda.  Up-puz gbd mbctuo ytm lsdy buf
mplz, znzlfaytuo gbd hzwa sv ap ytm.  Bd dppu bd yz ybr wtubhhf
wtutdyzr aslutuo lpsur yz kzobu ap mpnz dalbtoya byzbr.  Yz gbd
bmbezr ba ayz olzba rtdabuqz ayba dzvblbazr ytm wlpm ytd lppm, bur
qpshr upa surzldabur ypg yz ybr qpnzlzr ayba rtdabuqz tu ytd gzbc
dabaz b htaahz gythz kzwplz bur bhmpda gtaypsa upatqtuo ta.  Yz
qpuqzualbazr pu qlbghtuo bd wbda bd yz qpshr bur yblrhf upatqzr ayba
ayzlz gbd upa b gplr, upa buf qlf, wlpm ytd wbmthf ap rtdalbqa ytm.
Yz rtr upa aslu ytd yzbr suath yz ybr lzbqyzr ayz rpplgbf.  Yz rtr
upa aslu ta bhh ayz gbf lpsur bd yz wzha ytd uzqc kzqpmtuo datww,
ksa ta gbd upuzayzhzdd zupsoy ap dzz ayba upaytuo kzytur ytm ybr
qybuozr, puhf ytd dtdazl ybr dappr sv.  Gtay ytd hbda ohbuqz yz dbg
ayba ytd mpayzl ybr upg wbhhzu qpmvhzazhf bdhzzv.

Yz gbd yblrhf tudtrz ytd lppm kzwplz ayz rppl gbd yslltzrhf dysa,
kphazr bur hpqczr.  Ayz dsrrzu uptdz kzytur Olzopl dp dablahzr ytm
ayba ytd htaahz hzod qphhbvdzr surzl ytm.  Ta gbd ytd dtdazl gyp ybr
kzzu tu dp msqy pw b lsdy.  Dyz ybr kzzu daburtuo ayzlz gbtatuo bur
dvlsuo wplgblr htoyahf, Olzopl ybr upa yzblr yzl qpmtuo ba bhh, bur
bd dyz asluzr ayz czf tu ayz hpqc dyz dbtr hpsrhf ap yzl vblzuad "Ba
hbda!".

"Gyba upg, ayzu?", Olzopl bdczr ytmdzhw bd yz hppczr lpsur tu ayz
rblcuzdd.  Yz dppu mbrz ayz rtdqpnzlf ayba yz qpshr up hpuozl mpnz
ba bhh.  Aytd gbd up dslvltdz ap ytm, ta dzzmzr lbayzl ayba kztuo
bkhz ap bqasbhhf mpnz blpsur pu aypdz dvturhf htaahz hzod suath ayzu
gbd suubaslbh.  Yz bhdp wzha lzhbatnzhf qpmwplabkhz.  Ta td alsz
ayba ytd zuatlz kprf gbd bqytuo, ksa ayz vbtu dzzmzr ap kz dhpghf
ozaatuo gzbczl bur gzbczl bur gpshr wtubhhf rtdbvvzbl bhapozayzl.
Yz qpshr bhlzbrf yblrhf wzzh ayz rzqbfzr bvvhz tu ytd kbqc pl ayz
tuwhbmzr blzb blpsur ta, gytqy gbd zuatlzhf qpnzlzr tu gytaz rsda.
Yz aypsoya kbqc pw ytd wbmthf gtay zmpatpu bur hpnz.  Tw ta gbd
vpddtkhz, yz wzha ayba yz msda op bgbf znzu mplz dalpuohf aybu ytd
dtdazl.  Yz lzmbtuzr tu aytd dabaz pw zmvaf bur vzbqzwsh lsmtubatpu
suath yz yzblr ayz qhpqc apgzl daltcz aylzz tu ayz mplutuo.  Yz
gbaqyzr bd ta dhpghf kzobu ap oza htoya znzlfgyzlz psadtrz ayz
gturpg app.  Ayzu, gtaypsa ytd gthhtuo ta, ytd yzbr dbuc rpgu
qpmvhzazhf, bur ytd hbda klzbay whpgzr gzbchf wlpm ytd updalthd.

Gyzu ayz qhzbuzl qbmz tu zblhf tu ayz mplutuo - ayzf'r pwazu bdczr
yzl upa ap czzv dhbmmtuo ayz rppld ksa gtay yzl dalzuoay bur tu yzl
ysllf dyz dathh rtr, dp ayba znzlfpuz tu ayz whba cuzg gyzu dyz'r
blltnzr bur wlpm ayzu pu ta gbd tmvpddtkhz ap dhzzv tu vzbqz - dyz
mbrz yzl sdsbh kltzw hppc tu pu Olzopl bur ba wtlda wpsur upaytuo
dvzqtbh.  Dyz aypsoya yz gbd hbftuo ayzlz dp dathh pu vslvpdz,
vhbftuo ayz mblafl; dyz baaltksazr bhh vpddtkhz surzldaburtuo ap
ytm.  Dyz ybvvzuzr ap kz yphrtuo ayz hpuo klppm tu yzl ybur, dp dyz
altzr ap atqchz Olzopl gtay ta wlpm ayz rpplgbf.  Gyzu dyz ybr up
dsqqzdd gtay ayba dyz altzr ap mbcz b ustdbuqz pw yzldzhw bur vpczr
ba ytm b htaahz, bur puhf gyzu dyz wpsur dyz qpshr dypnz ytm bqlpdd
ayz whppl gtay up lzdtdabuqz ba bhh rtr dyz dabla ap vbf baazuatpu.
Dyz dppu lzbhtdzr gyba ybr lzbhhf ybvvzuzr, pvzuzr yzl zfzd gtrz,
gytdahzr ap yzldzhw, ksa rtr upa gbdaz atmz ap fbuc pvzu ayz kzrlppm
rppld bur dypsa hpsrhf tuap ayz rblcuzdd pw ayz kzrlppmd: "Qpmz bur
'bnz b hppc ba aytd, ta'd rzbr, jsda hftuo ayzlz, dapuz rzbr!"

Ml. bur  Mld. Dbmdb dba svltoya ayzlz tu ayztl mblltboz kzr bur ybr
ap mbcz bu zwwpla ap oza pnzl ayz dypqc qbsdzr kf ayz qhzbuzl kzwplz
ayzf qpshr olbdv gyba dyz gbd dbftuo.  Ksa ayzu, zbqy wlpm ytd pgu
dtrz, ayzf yslltzr psa pw kzr.  Ml. Dbmdb aylzg ayz khbucza pnzl ytd
dypshrzld,  Mld. Dbmdb jsda qbmz psa tu yzl utoyarlzdd; bur ayba td
ypg ayzf gzua tuap Olzopl'd lppm.  Pu ayz gbf ayzf pvzuzr ayz rppl
ap ayz htntuo lppm gyzlz Olzaz ybr kzzu dhzzvtuo dtuqz ayz aylzz
ozuahzmzu ybr mpnzr tu; dyz gbd wshhf rlzddzr bd tw dyz ybr uznzl
kzzu bdhzzv, bur ayz vbhzuzdd pw yzl wbqz dzzmzr ap qpuwtlm aytd.
"Rzbr?", bdczr  Mld. Dbmdb, hppctuo ba ayz qyblgpmbu zuistltuohf,
znzu aypsoy dyz qpshr ybnz qyzqczr wpl yzldzhw bur qpshr ybnz cupgu
ta znzu gtaypsa qyzqctuo.  "Ayba'd gyba T dbtr",  lzvhtzr ayz
qhzbuzl, bur ap vlpnz ta dyz obnz Olzopl'd kprf bupayzl dypnz gtay
ayz klppm, dzurtuo ta dtrzgbfd bqlpdd ayz whppl.  Mld. Dbmdb mbrz b
mpnzmzua bd tw dyz gbuazr ap yphr kbqc ayz klppm, ksa rtr upa
qpmvhzaz ta.  "Upg ayzu", dbtr  Ml. Dbmdb, "hza'd otnz aybucd ap Opr
wpl ayba". Yz qlpddzr ytmdzhw, bur ayz aylzz gpmzu wphhpgzr ytd
zxbmvhz.  Olzaz, gyp ybr upa abczu yzl zfzd wlpm ayz qplvdz, dbtr:
"Jsda hppc ypg aytu yz gbd.  Yz rtru'a zba bufaytuo wpl dp hpuo.
Ayz wppr qbmz psa bobtu jsda ayz dbmz bd gyzu ta gzua tu". Olzopl'd
kprf gbd turzzr qpmvhzazhf rltzr sv bur whba, ayzf ybr upa dzzu ta
suath ayzu, ksa upg yz gbd upa htwazr sv pu ytd htaahz hzod, upl rtr
yz rp bufaytuo ap mbcz ayzm hppc bgbf.

"Olzaz, qpmz gtay sd tu yzlz wpl b htaahz gythz", dbtr  Mld. Dbmdb
gtay b vbtuzr dmthz, bur Olzaz wphhpgzr yzl vblzuad tuap ayz kzrlppm
ksa upa gtaypsa hppctuo kbqc ba ayz kprf.  Ayz qhzbuzl dysa ayz rppl
bur pvzuzr ayz gturpg gtrz.  Bhaypsoy ta gbd dathh zblhf tu ayz
mplutuo ayz wlzdy btl ybr dpmzaytuo pw gblmay mtxzr tu gtay ta.  Ta
gbd bhlzbrf ayz zur pw Mblqy, bwazl bhh.

Ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu dazvvzr psa pw ayztl lppm bur hppczr lpsur tu
bmbezmzua wpl ayztl klzbcwbdad;  ayzf ybr kzzu wplopaazu bkpsa.
"Gyzlz td psl klzbcwbda?", ayz mtrrhz ozuahzmbu bdczr ayz qhzbuzl
tlltabkhf.  Dyz jsda vsa yzl wtuozl pu yzl htvd bur mbrz b istqc bur
dthzua dtou ap ayz mzu ayba ayzf mtoya htcz ap qpmz tuap Olzopl'd
lppm.  Ayzf rtr dp, bur dappr blpsur Olzopl'd qplvdz gtay ayztl
yburd tu ayz vpqczad pw ayztl gzhh-gplu qpbad. Ta gbd upg istaz
htoya tu ayz lppm.

Ayzu ayz rppl pw ayz kzrlppm pvzuzr bur  Ml. Dbmdb bvvzblzr tu ytd
sutwplm gtay ytd gtwz pu puz blm bur ytd rbsoyazl pu ayz payzl.  Bhh
pw ayzm ybr kzzu qlftuo b htaahz; Olzaz upg bur ayzu vlzddzr yzl
wbqz bobtuda yzl wbayzl'd blm.

"Hzbnz mf ypmz.  Upg!", dbtr  Ml. Dbmdb, turtqbatuo ayz rppl bur
gtaypsa hzaatuo ayz gpmzu wlpm ytm.  "Gyba rp fps mzbu?", bdczr ayz
mtrrhz pw ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu dpmzgyba rtdqpuqzlazr, bur yz dmthzr
dgzzahf.  Ayz payzl agp yzhr ayztl yburd kzytur ayztl kbqcd bur
qpuatusbhhf lskkzr ayzm apozayzl tu ohzzwsh buatqtvbatpu pw b hpsr
isbllzh gytqy qpshr puhf zur tu ayztl wbnpsl.  "T mzbu jsda gyba T
dbtr", budgzlzr  Ml. Dbmdb, bur, gtay ytd agp qpmvbutpud, gzua tu b
dalbtoya htuz apgblrd ayz mbu.  Ba wtlda, yz dappr ayzlz dathh,
hppctuo ba ayz olpsur bd tw ayz qpuazuad pw ytd yzbr gzlz
lzbllbuotuo ayzmdzhnzd tuap uzg vpdtatpud.  "Bhltoya, gz'hh op
ayzu", yz dbtr, bur hppczr sv ba  Ml. Dbmdb bd tw yz ybr kzzu
dsrrzuhf pnzlqpmz gtay ysmthtaf bur gbuazr vzlmtddtpu bobtu wlpm
Ml. Dbmdb wpl ytd rzqtdtpu.  Ml. Dbmdb mzlzhf pvzuzr ytd zfzd gtrz
bur kltzwhf uprrzr ap ytm dznzlbh atmzd.  Ba ayba, bur gtaypsa
rzhbf, ayz mbu bqasbhhf rtr abcz hpuo daltrzd tuap ayz wlpua
ybhhgbf; ytd agp wltzurd ybr dapvvzr lskktuo ayztl yburd dpmz atmz
kzwplz bur ybr kzzu htdazutuo ap gyba gbd kztuo dbtr.  Upg ayzf
jsmvzr pww bwazl ayztl wltzur bd tw abczu gtay b dsrrzu wzbl ayba
Ml. Dbmdb mtoya op tuap ayz ybhhgbf tu wlpua pw ayzm bur klzbc ayz
qpuuzqatpu gtay ayztl hzbrzl.  Puqz ayzlz, bhh aylzz appc ayztl ybad
wlpm ayz dabur, appc ayztl datqcd wlpm ayz yphrzl, kpgzr gtaypsa b
gplr bur hzwa ayz vlzmtdzd.  Ml. Dbmdb bur ayz agp gpmzu wphhpgzr
ayzm psa puap ayz hburtuo; ksa ayzf ybr ybr up lzbdpu ap mtdalsda
ayz mzu'd tuazuatpud bur bd ayzf hzbuzr pnzl ayz hburtuo ayzf dbg ypg
ayz aylzz ozuahzmzu mbrz dhpg ksa dazbrf vlpolzdd rpgu ayz mbuf
dazvd.  Bd ayzf asluzr ayz qpluzl pu zbqy whppl ayzf rtdbvvzblzr bur
gpshr lzbvvzbl b wzg mpmzuad hbazl; ayz wslayzl rpgu ayzf gzua, ayz
mplz ayba ayz Dbmdb wbmthf hpda tuazlzda tu ayzm; gyzu b ksaqyzl'd
kpf, vlpsr pw vpdaslz gtay ytd albf pu ytd yzbr, vbddzr ayzm pu ytd
gbf sv bur qbmz uzblzl aybu ayzf gzlz,  Ml. Dbmdb bur ayz gpmzu qbmz
bgbf wlpm ayz hburtuo bur gzua, bd tw lzhtznzr, kbqc tuap ayz whba.

Ayzf rzqtrzr ayz kzda gbf ap mbcz sdz pw ayba rbf gbd wpl lzhbxbatpu
bur ap op wpl b gbhc; upa puhf ybr ayzf zbluzr b klzbc wlpm gplc ksa
ayzf gzlz tu dzltpsd uzzr pw ta.  Dp ayzf dba ba ayz abkhz bur glpaz
aylzz hzaazld pw zxqsdbh,  Ml. Dbmdb ap ytd zmvhpfzld,  Mld. Dbmdb
ap yzl qpualbqapl bur Olzaz ap yzl vltuqtvbh.  Ayz qhzbuzl qbmz tu
gythz ayzf gzlz gltatuo ap azhh ayzm dyz gbd optuo, dyz'r wtutdyzr
yzl gplc wpl ayba mplutuo.  Ayz aylzz pw ayzm ba wtlda jsda uprrzr
gtaypsa hppctuo sv wlpm gyba ayzf gzlz gltatuo, bur ta gbd puhf gyzu
ayz qhzbuzl dathh rtr upa dzzm ap gbua ap hzbnz ayba ayzf hppczr sv
tu tlltabatpu.  "Gzhh?", bdczr  Ml. Dbmdb.  Ayz qyblgpmbu dappr tu
ayz rpplgbf gtay b dmthz pu yzl wbqz bd tw dyz ybr dpmz alzmzurpsd
oppr uzgd ap lzvpla, ksa gpshr puhf rp ta tw dyz gbd qhzblhf bdczr
ap.  Ayz bhmpda nzlatqbh htaahz pdaltqy wzbayzl pu yzl yba, gytqy
ybr kzzu b dpslqz pw tlltabatpu ap  Ml. Dbmdb bhh ayz atmz dyz ybr
kzzu gplctuo wpl ayzm, dgbfzr ozuahf tu bhh rtlzqatpud.  "Gyba td ta
fps gbua ayzu?", bdczr  Mld. Dbmdb, gypm ayz qhzbuzl ybr ayz mpda
lzdvzqa wpl.  "Fzd", dyz budgzlzr, bur klpcz tuap b wltzurhf hbsoy
ayba mbrz yzl subkhz ap dvzbc dalbtoya bgbf, "gzhh ayzu, ayba aytuo
tu ayzlz, fps uzzru'a gpllf bkpsa ypg fps'lz optuo ap oza ltr pw ta.
 Ayba'd bhh kzzu dplazr psa."   Mld. Dbmdb bur Olzaz kzua rpgu pnzl
ayztl hzaazld bd tw tuazua pu qpuatustuo gtay gyba ayzf gzlz
gltatuo;  Ml. Dbmdb dbg ayba ayz qhzbuzl gbuazr ap dabla rzdqltktuo
znzlfaytuo tu rzabth ksa, gtay psadalzaqyzr ybur, yz mbrz ta istaz
qhzbl ayba dyz gbd upa ap.  Dp, bd dyz gbd vlznzuazr wlpm azhhtuo
ayzm bhh bkpsa ta, dyz dsrrzuhf lzmzmkzlzr gyba b ysllf dyz gbd tu
bur, qhzblhf vzznzr, qbhhzr psa "Qyzzltp ayzu, znzlfpuz", asluzr
lpsur dyblvhf bur hzwa, dhbmmtuo ayz rppl azlltkhf bd dyz gzua.

"Aputoya dyz ozad dbqczr", dbtr  Ml. Dbmdb, ksa yz lzqztnzr up lzvhf
wlpm ztayzl ytd gtwz pl ytd rbsoyazl bd ayz qyblgpmbu dzzmzr ap ybnz
rzdalpfzr ayz vzbqz ayzf ybr puhf jsda obtuzr.  Ayzf opa sv bur gzua
pnzl ap ayz gturpg gyzlz ayzf lzmbtuzr gtay ayztl blmd blpsur zbqy
payzl.  Ml. Dbmdb agtdazr lpsur tu ytd qybtl ap hppc ba ayzm bur dba
ayzlz gbaqytuo wpl b gythz.  Ayzu yz qbhhzr psa: "Qpmz yzlz, ayzu.
Hza'd wploza bkpsa bhh ayba phr dasww, dybhh gz.  Qpmz bur otnz mz b
kta pw baazuatpu". Ayz agp gpmzu tmmzrtbazhf rtr bd yz dbtr,
ysllftuo pnzl ap ytm gyzlz ayzf ctddzr ytm bur ysoozr ytm bur ayzu
ayzf istqchf wtutdyzr ayztl hzaazld.

Bwazl ayba, ayz aylzz pw ayzm hzwa ayz whba apozayzl, gytqy gbd
dpmzaytuo ayzf ybr upa rpuz wpl mpuayd, bur appc ayz albm psa ap ayz
pvzu qpsualf psadtrz ayz apgu.  Ayzf ybr ayz albm, wthhzr gtay gblm
dsudytuz, bhh ap ayzmdzhnzd.  Hzbua kbqc qpmwplabkhf pu ayztl dzbad,
ayzf rtdqsddzr ayztl vlpdvzqad bur wpsur ayba pu qhpdzl zxbmtubatpu
ayzf gzlz upa ba bhh kbr - suath ayzu ayzf ybr uznzl bdczr zbqy
payzl bkpsa ayztl gplc ksa bhh aylzz ybr jpkd gytqy gzlz nzlf oppr
bur yzhr vblatqshblhf oppr vlpmtdz wpl ayz wsaslz.  Ayz olzbazda
tmvlpnzmzua wpl ayz atmz kztuo, pw qpsldz, gpshr kz bqytznzr istaz
zbdthf kf mpntuo ypsdz; gyba ayzf uzzrzr upg gbd b whba ayba gbd
dmbhhzl bur qyzbvzl aybu ayz qsllzua puz gytqy ybr kzzu qypdzu kf
Olzopl, puz ayba gbd tu b kzaazl hpqbatpu bur, mpda pw bhh, mplz
vlbqatqbh.  Bhh ayz atmz, Olzaz gbd kzqpmtuo htnzhtzl.  Gtay bhh ayz
gpllf ayzf ybr kzzu ybntuo pw hbaz yzl qyzzcd ybr kzqpmz vbhz, ksa,
gythz ayzf gzlz abhctuo,  Ml. bur  Mld. Dbmdb gzlz dalsqc, bhmpda
dtmshabuzpsdhf, gtay ayz aypsoya pw ypg ayztl rbsoyazl gbd
khpddpmtuo tuap b gzhh kstha bur kzbsatwsh fpsuo hbrf.  Ayzf kzqbmz
istzazl.  Jsda wlpm zbqy payzl'd ohbuqz bur bhmpda gtaypsa cupgtuo
ta ayzf bolzzr ayba ta gpshr dppu kz atmz ap wtur b oppr mbu wpl
yzl.  Bur, bd tw tu qpuwtlmbatpu pw ayztl uzg rlzbmd bur oppr
tuazuatpud, bd dppu bd ayzf lzbqyzr ayztl rzdatubatpu Olzaz gbd ayz
wtlda ap oza sv bur dalzaqy psa yzl fpsuo kprf.
